e e
good morning folks how are
you give me a second
here stupid OBS is
uh for the folks that use OBS for live
streaming the window captured that I try
to use it never it never populates the
chart so I'm not
sure why it doesn't do it but fights me
I'll go over these levels in a moment
just give me a second make sure the
audio is coming
[Music]
through audio
check audio check audio
check all
right all right so anyway good morning
hope you're all doing well
so yesterday we had a a short
session and I had the a meeting and my
wife texted me don't forget to do this
and don't forget to do that so it was
kind of distracting yesterday but uh
I'll have a
review with my
son most likely this evening that'll go
up on his YouTube channel
tonight all right so we have the NASDAQ
we've had a really nice run
up for this week you can't hardly see it
here but that is the uh it's two levels
it's the upper quadrant of yesterday's
opening range
Gap I'm sorry opening range it's the
upper quadrant of that and then this is
the opening range Gap High uh yesterday
because I was doing too many things at
the same time during the live stream and
trying to communicate with my wife and
text above above
me she was running out the house so uh
had I had a lot of things going on that
distracted me so in in advance so that
way we know going forward If Ever I have
something going on during the times that
I would normally be live streaming I'm
not going to live stream it's it's just
not enough uh bandwidth for me to work
with in when it's such a sh uh span of
time very distracting but nonetheless uh
the this level is it's actually two
levels here it's the upper quadrant of
yesterday or Thursday's opening range
okay and I'll show you what that is in a
second but it's also 20% of the weekly
range so that's TGIF so we have the
market trade and reach
down over
here all the way down
into this level here which is both the
upper quadrant of yesterday's opening
range that means it's the 9:30 to 10:00
range whatever that is you measure that
you get the midpoint upper lower
quadrants and then you
have the uh 20% retracement of total
weekly range okay and you can take a
second and load up your weekly chart for
NQ for September's contract take your
FIB draw it across the highest high and
the lowest low
and uh mark it with the the Fibonacci
levels
here it would look like
this
okay 0.75
0.25 that's for quadrants and if you
want to do it on the TGIF I always just
toggle the the F the five here off
in there and that way it'll show the 20
and 30% respectively so it would look
like this that's what your fit would
look like not that it's not that I'm
anchoring it to anything right now but
you draw that from the low up to the
high because it's an up close it's an up
we so you draw from low to high that'll
give you your 20 and your 30%
respectively I'll do it tonight as part
of the exercise that way Caleb
can learn how to do with this as well
and you'll have the benefit of seeing
what it's what it's like and what it
looks
like but there was two levels there it's
the upper quadrant and it's the 20% TGIF
or 20% of the total weekly range thus
far not to say that it can't make a
higher high on the week I'm just saying
that usually as I mentioned on
Monday this will also be in the review
as well Monday's trading I mentioned how
we can use the previous week if TGIF
doesn't form on the
Friday of week of
then when you carry over to the next
week on Monday's trading you can look
for it to 20 to 30% and you'll see that
it did that very thing on Monday as
well but just your nurses know that that
that's what will be part of the review
also some of the technical things my
son he asked to show what it is that I'm
asking him specifically to do so that
way he can more or less mimic it each
day and and at the end of the week so
you'll also have the benefit I've seen
as in addition to
him and there's the TGF 30% of the range
so if I was to take it like
this I did
this you can see it's the TGF 20% it's
just me drawing a line it's not it's not
an indicator I'm sure somebody over at
Lux algo will probably create
it make sure you put my three letters in
the name of it so the uh
the uh the Confluence of that and then
trading down to it at uh almost N9 o'
it's inside the
macro so I'm looking at how we are
behaving here so far it's a little
unorganized at 10 o'clock we have a
medium impact news
driver so there's been a lot of upside
delivery so it's reasonable for it to be
trading down like
this I'm going to maximize this just
this chart here
you may be asking yourself wow this is
stuff that you look at on a day-by-day
basis yes every time there's an opening
range or opening range Gap there're two
different
things the um if those levels have not
been completely used that means at least
explored tested traded to repriced
to I carry them over to the previous day
from the previous day I do that for
three days okay so that's for your notes
as well so every opening range Gap if
there is one I carry that one three days
in the future and I use it as a look
back as a as a means of key
levels very very very influential in
terms of uh price delivery how it reacts
and the wonderful setups form around
them the uh the portion of yesterday's
opening range Gap
is below all of this this is the opening
range Gap
high in other words where
we settled the previous day not
yesterday so that would be Wednesday and
then when we opened up trading on
Thursday that's these two levels here so
that in itself also has a range that you
can do quadrants on so you're going to
do this level to that level and again
that's not ERS Theory okay not going to
see anybody talking about opening ranges
and quad quadrants
within soon as soon as I start saying
things like you know a quarter level a
quadrant you know dividing into fours oh
right away oh yeah that's that thing
quarters Theory go and go and explore it
you'll see that that is not what this is
but because we're we're not even near
this at all right now I'm not interested
in it but should we happen to trade down
there should it happen then I'll I'll
plot the uh the quadrants on that and
they will be at that time pertinent but
right now they're not so where we opened
yesterday and where we traded to in this
in this case the opening
range is the first 30 minutes that's
9:30 a.m. eastern time to 10 a.m.
eastern
time in my haste yesterday in my
distraction I typed out these levels
here and you watched me do that in the
recording uh I did not include the word
gap okay um um The Gap is the difference
between the previous day's settlement
price and where regular trading or
regular session hours begin trading
that's the the Gap the opening
range is how far price travels after it
opens at 9:30 to 10 o'cl so if it's up
or down movement whatever that is you
measure that and the same thing you do
quadrants on that that's not quarters
Theory okay
so it's not it's not pivots it's not
anything like that it's not W off it's
not Elliot weave it's none of those
things so so far like I said we're a
little unorganized in here and I think
the the cleaner price action will start
probably maybe 15 minutes going into
uh 10:00 and then into that macro 950
10 10
so I'm just relaxing trying not to have
too much of a an opinion right away as I
want to see what we're doing ahead of
that Medium impact driver consumer uh
confidence or whatever it is sentiment
isn't it interesting to see how it
reacts off that previous days opening
Range
High see it King off of it
here and King off of it
here and the upper quadrant it's king
off that also in addition to it being
the TGIF 20% level okay so these are all
levels that are written on my notepad
Okay so I have a
notepad the pages that
flapping that is what I have written
down if I don't have a notepad with me I
will have a screenshot of my notepad so
that I can pull that up on my phone next
to me so one of the other I'm looking at
that or I'm looking at the actual pen
comment and they're just simply the
levels and I'm abbreviating everything
you see here I don't write all that out
I just write down like number eight 15
know what year I'm trading in and then o
r that means the opening range CE
consequent cement it's the midpoint
that's the highest high and the lowest
low of the first 30 minutes of trading
yesterday don't be confused it has
nothing to do with today's TR trading
because the price hasn't booked in these
levels yet not all of them it's done
this one and this one but they have not
explored or delivered to the consequent
encroachment or the lower quadrant or
yes today's opening price okay
so I'm looking to see if we can make an
attempt to get down into that at the
very minimum consequent encroachment
which was which is here okay so all of
these things here and the actual levels
that you see highlighted with the
annotations on my chart and the new day
opening Gap from yesterday's formation
at 600m and the differences of 5 PM's
closing settlement price which you know
is New Day opening Gap those levels are
on my notepad but teaching my son and
you having the benefit of learning this
these are the things that I have on my
chart or not on my chart but on my uh
price list of key levels that's on my
pad so that way I can work with a naked
chart so when I have a naked
chart I know what levels I'm looking for
but in the beginning you're not going to
you're not going to fully appreciate or
understand neither will he unless he
starts putting them on the chart now you
may never want to go to
um keeping a a chart completely naked
with nothing annotated on it I prefer it
because it's it allows me to be flexible
that way my eye won't let's be real I
mean I'm I'm a human being like anybody
else and if I see something on the chart
and his price is moving to it the
natural order of things is is it going
to go to that level and trade through it
or is it going to react and give a a
response and you know retrace away from
it
and if I don't have that line on the
chart it keeps my focus on what is price
actually doing and then I'm constantly
referring to like when you're driving
your car hopefully you check your side
mirrors and your rearview mirror you
know periodically every every now and
then as a commercial driver they tell
you to keep checking your mirrors and
you don't have a rearview mirror but you
check your side mirrors all the time
because you got to keep a view of what's
around you you're driving the vehicles
outside of your own vehicle as a a
commercial driver well as a Trader and
watching price action if you're only
looking at one thing okay or if you have
a distraction like I don't like when my
wife talks when we're driving because
she'll talk with her hands and my eye
goes to her hands it's very distracting
or she has this little flash on the back
of her phone when there's a a text or a
phone call it flashes and I every time I
see it I want to throw it out the window
so I have to have very very few things
on my chart so it's very hard for me to
try to communicate clear-headed
when there's a whole lot of these types
of annotations on my chart when I'm
teaching or showing examples but I get
so many times a reference to hey you
know can you show us what's on your
notes like what are the levels that you
have on there what are you what are you
writing down it's just this kind of
information okay and it's a couple other
things that I'm never going to talk
about but they're not going to be a Make
It or Break It or a success thing for
you okay it's just personal things for
me that I want to have you as a reminder
to myself for this individual trading
day that individual week that are not
even that important for you they're not
they're not secret recipe ingredients
that causes you to Make It or Break It
okay this is I'm not making them known
to you and that's me being honest I
could tell you that this is all I have
on there and I would be lying then but
there are other things in there that
don't have any bearing on what's going
to make price go up or
down so that's the reason why I tell you
I don't want to show you my notepad
because there's a few things on there
that I want to keep private to
me so we've had a return back into this
small little Gap in here all of this is
efficient because it's back and forth
overlapping each previous range then we
have this small little Gap right there
see
that I'll annotate it with just the
lines because I don't want to be
monkeying around with the
uh the rectangles they usually fight me
when I'm on live stream so I'm just
going to draw it out like this it's uh
less
[Music]
painless so as you recall on Tuesday
when the market was trading one-sided
and it wasn't giving very much
retracements it just kept pumping and
pumping and pumping uh and I tell in
that live stream I say that you know
when it's like this can I trade it yes
but it's going to require a whole lot
more things that are going to be
plaguing me with new questions and
people worrying me and it's going to
cause confusion for my son because
they're too advanced but there are
things that I can do obviously as you
watched yesterday there was small little
fluctuations both up and down that were
tradable
okay neither of them or any of them
yesterday were things that I'm trying to
teach him to focus on and to prevent him
from having a lot of
hardships trying to do things that you
know he doesn't have the skill set to do
yet and most of you as viewers don't
know
either when I'm promoting some
participation in the day and if it
starts running in
one-sidedness then I'm not going to try
to push that for him because it's
outside the boundaries of of a skill set
I did take a short yesterday I will
include that in the review so that way
you can see it I did a turtle suit I
traded like one and a half handles away
from the high and short and I took one
partial and then it came back and
stopped me out on the balance so on 15
contracts I was able to peel off five
and then Trail the stop and then it came
back and and took that out but it was
engaging with the things I was leaving
you with yesterday looking for some kind
of an afternoon retracement the the
lunch macro so uh you'll have that also
in the
review you're looking at this over here
probably wonder what that is and
essentially this an inversion fair value
right in
there
I'm I'm watching this Gap here I'd like
to see that stay open not even retrade
back
to if it does that and we start to break
below this low here the liquidity
resting below here and maybe an
exploration down into the consequent
encroachment or midpoint of yesterday's
opening range notice it's not the Gap
what we're measuring here is let me let
me annotate it like
this so you can for this purpose you can
take a screenshot of this this is for
your notes it'll be easier for you to
see
it that range in other words I'm
annotating the high level the lower
midpoint lower quadrant and then the
opening price yesterday at
930 this is the highest high it Formed
at 10:00 yesterday so this range is the
opening range there is no 15minute
opening range I know it's being banded
about by
uh another YouTuber but uh I can assure
you there's no 15minute opening range
it's the first 30 minutes so this
is opening
range
or first 30 minutes
of
[Music]
trading
9:30 a.m. eastern time to 10:00
a.m. eastern
time okay so that way you can take a
take a screenshot of that that we have
reference of what that is and why I'm
annotating it and you want to have these
levels going back you you want to have
three days worth of it basically what
I'm saying so what you're saying is
today's yesterdays and the previous days
I'm not so concerned about the other
levels I'm not I don't have them on my
notepad but you can clearly see great
away how fast if you're doing this you
could have a very very busy chart so
that's why I keep be clean I like to
keep it you know on my notepad so that
way I know what levels it's probably
gravitating to and then I don't have to
have all the stuff on my chart because
right away it would look like you
know just think of someone that has all
kinds of stuff all over their charts and
that's the that's a retails uh Quagmire
all right so we came back over to
without the Gap here I don't I didn't
want to see that so we're not the not in
any position of and expecting a
directional run
yet
951 so we're inside the macro
touch the Fe got there once
more while we're waiting for that 10:00
number I'm going to do the same thing
here that I did here so that way you can
take notes as well on
this this is where we settled on
Wednesday on day session and this level
here is the opening price yesterday so
the difference between that
is that is your opening range Gap
[Music]
okay and you can run you know quadrants
on that as well but we're not needing to
do that at the
moment so that way there's two two
frames of reference there and they're
very specific elements in ranges one's
an inefficiency as a gap one's an
actual traveling from an opening price
at 9:30 to whatever the extreme high or
low is words if it opens at 9:30 and
starts trading
up the highest high formed at 10 o'clock
to the 9:30 opening that is your opening
range if it opens at 9:30 and trades
down the lowest low it forms at 10: a.m.
to the 9:30 opening that is your opening
range
Gap I'm sorry that's your opening range
rather the Gap is the actual difference
between previous regular trading day
session hours that's determined down
here you're going to be using that
okay you get the settlement price on
that and then where you open at 9:30
first tick first print and then that's
your opening range Gap because there's
no trading when you're looking at like
that perspective and I'll show you what
I
mean this is where we're trading here
and we started trading at
there so that opening Price Right There
is the first trade first print on that
down close
candle watch how the chart
changes see the Gap that's that opening
candle
here let me take this vertical one it's
not
helping I use it just to uh frame a
local point for matching all these lines
up annotate so that we can follow along
but this right here that closing price
would be
called the opening range Gap
High because that's yesterday's regular
session settlement
price and then where we opened down here
that would be your
opening range Gap low because it's lower
than the previous day's settlement price
but I'm not including it here because I
went I wanted to go through it this way
and annotate it and audibly talk about
it but if I add those levels it's just
going to be much more it's going to be
harder for you to file along for what I
had in the charts here so you can
clearly see how fast this can become a
nightmare for managing levels and and
referring to certain things but having
them on a notepad next to you keeps
everything nice and organiz
and when price is trading above it above
what any one of these particular levels
remember you're going to have some
levels from the previous day and the
previous day so you're managing a whole
lot of levels that when they match with
time and the market structure what it's
implying and if you have a narrative
what it's likely to do um as I mentioned
yesterday my interest is I want to see
it get down to the opening range Gap
high that was that was what I was
wanting to see some kind of a an attempt
to do that and even trade higher after
that as I said I mean we we talked about
it on Tuesday how the Market's likely to
go higher we looked at on the daily
chart but that doesn't mean get in any
anual time intraday you got to have some
kind of a a frame of
reference let's go back to electronic
trading hours
this is a very busy week and yesterday
was like everything coming together all
at one time I have both my nieces living
with me one's getting ready to go off to
college next week and we have a lot of
things going on and the younger one my
wife and I are in the process of getting
custody of her so that way she can be
enrolled in school and it's just so many
things all at one time yesterday was
just I should have said no I'm not going
to live stream that's what I should have
done but you'll see that
uh the things I mentioned on Tuesday's
live session where it's just one-sided
and doesn't have much of a fluctuation
in price up and
down I prefer not to trade those days I
mean obviously if I'm in it I'm G to try
to M you maximize and milk it okay but
there isn't anything I can do once we
start looking at the marketplace and the
830 news driver had already passed for
like an hour so and I don't expect Caleb
to know how to trade those reports I in
fact I've told him they avoid
them wait until after those uh those
reports hit the
market let's look at 60 Minute chart
this was yesterday's trading 7 a.m. all
one-sided okay this is exactly what I'm
referring to on Tuesday's lecture very
very very very difficult for a new
Trader to see how to navigate that and
to avoid the inevitable um if you try to
always chase it or engage those days you
don't know how far it's going to retrace
you don't know if it's going to retrace
you don't know how far they're going to
keep pressing and higher
or lower if it's going the other
direction so when it's like this this is
exactly what I was referring to on
Tuesday it's better for me to try to
just sit still because Caleb's not going
to know how to do what I'm going to show
tonight uh you can see the executions
you can see where I'm getting in it was
very close to the the high not the high
of the day but the high in the lunch
hour getting ready go into the U the PM
session during the lunch hour which is
classically a 2our period so when I say
lunch hour it's not just 60 minutes it's
11:30 a.m. eastern time this is the
stuff you write down in your notes by
the way 11:30 a.m. eastern standard time
to 1:30 p.m. Eastern Standard time so
whenever there's a run
higher whether it's protracted in one
big move like this with no or little
retracements or if it's staggered it
goes up a little bit comes down a little
bit but this keeps going up into the
lunch hour of 11:30 it's reasonable to
to anticipate a measure of retracement
so identify the easiest relative equal
low or single low in the run up after
10: a.m. that that that has to be after
10: a.m. so you're not really always
looking for something before 10: a.m. so
10:00 a.m. or later whatever relative
equal lows or singular low the lunch
macro will repic back to that even if it
wants to go higher don't take my word
for it go back through your charts
you'll see it's there every single day
and the reverse that same logic if you
didn't catch it you can Rec you can
rewind it when you watch the
recording those elements is just simply
reversed if the market has dropped
whether it's staggered and you know
where it goes up down up down up down
but just keeps making lower lows into
11:30 at 11:30 start hunting setups that
would take us up to the short-term high
or relative equal highs that formed
after 10:00 a.m. and that's the lunch
macro okay it'll retrace back that to a
minimum there's other little subtleties
that I'll add into the book but that's
enough because a lot of people don't
understand what the lunch macro is so
I've I've now taught that to you um but
there are other ones that you can use to
capture larger retracements or reversal
days and or where you pyramid make it a
bigger
position but uh yeah this is just one
one one directional movement and I would
rather not try to participate in that
teaching my son but just to put my thumb
in the eye of everybody that was in
other people's live stream are saying
ICT really blew it it was painful
watching that you have you have no idea
what I was managing I was managing three
people texting me and uh looking at the
clock saying okay I'm I'm G to wait for
this and wait for that and plus it's a
one it's a oneway ride on the outside so
if if I'm aiming to teach my son you
know I'm not trying to get him in on a
day like this this is this is the stuff
that is going to hurt him but it's the
thing that attracts everybody that's the
flame and if you're a moth and you want
to try to fly real close to that you're
asking for
it all right so here it
is 10 o'clock we have really a just a
big block of short-term highs and lows
so we're running the relative equal
highs if you don't mind I'm going to
take this off now you
been showing what that is now
if you can if you watch yesterday's
recording it's not a long one it's
rather short but there are small little
fluctuations in there that were referred
to as key points to see watching where
price would draw to how to react off of
them and when we do live streams next
week I'm going to be talking a little
bit more about entries
not for the sake of Caleb pressing the
demo entry not to inspire him to trade
for a combine yet it's to get him
thinking about how
to well if we know where the market
could potentially draw
to and then now what should we be
looking for for practicing tap reading
like how
to how to look at certain elements of
price action and and determine whether
or not there's something there that
would present a catalyst for Price
moving higher or lower and once we go
through next week the following week
will be things that are are predominant
focusing on barriers to where the market
May struggle where the market may have
difficulty passing through and what
would cause a deeper retracement on an
underlying directional bias or a draw in
liquidity so it'll help you frame this
form of uh of normaly that doesn't feel
normal when you're in a trade especially
if it's one with real money any tiny
little retracement against your
underlying position if you don't have a
lot of experience if you haven't been
doing it very long or if you're trading
with
overleveraged uh size like you're doing
the maximum that you can afford not that
you should be able to afford that much
but if you're panicky or if you're
anxious about every tick that goes
against you or if it's if it stalls a
little bit and stops moving in your
favor but it has moved in your favor you
have open profit
that sensation of oh please let this
thing just get me out of it like I want
to get out of it it's very exhausting so
knowing what to look for and anticipate
that and that way when you're watching
price action those are the things you
want to annotate in your chart after the
fact or as they happen so you want to
fill in those
those gaps of just between screenshots
for your Journal you want to really
record your observations of what it felt
like for you I mean if it was
very hard for you to trust that a move
was going to pan out based on something
you see in the chart the quickest way
for you to desensitize yourself to that
is to annotate it screenshot it and
record it because what you'll see is is
you're referring back to something that
many times that you started believing or
had a concern about that was outside of
what was taught so you're just bringing
in your own irrational fear you're not
you're not really you're not looking at
at at things objectively and it's your
infancy or your inexperience that's
leading you by emotion and
fear so that'll be two weeks from now so
we'll talk about those and then that
should finish our month of August and
then we can go into actual um entry like
what it looks like to put orders in
so what we're seeing is it's retracing
back into previous days trading so the
difference between where we
opened here and where we settled here
that is your opening range
Gap okay so it would look like
this for those of you watch me do this
before in live streams and recordings
that's your opening range Gap okay so
we're trading up into that off of
previous day's opening Range
High now opening range for today is this
low up
to that candle's high right there that's
opening range so that would look like
this by
contrast a sec
okay that's the time and that's the
high okay so it's the low up to the
highest high inside of the time
measurement of 9:30
opening to
10 see the bottom month chart 10: a.m.
and the highest high and the lowest low
is what you're marking there low and
high so this is your opening
range and your opening range Gap is that
opening price here at
9:30 to previous days regular session
settlement price that's the
close you get that by the rth that's the
regular trading hours that's what you're
using that information for but because I
already know these rang just they're
they're next to me like I'm looking at
them I didn't want to draw everything
out because it's too many things on the
chart and I know some of you are just
you're highly critical you're impatient
and you're going to look at it it's
going to be confusing to you and you're
like okay I don't know what I'm doing
here and this stuff doesn't work I'm
going to go watch somebody else and if
that's how you feel I really want you to
do that like I don't want I don't want
anybody here that has that
mentality because frankly you don't
deserve to learn
it oh listen to him
you'll see or maybe you
won't so we have relative equal Highs at
the
opening we swept that into just about
the opening range Gap
high so these two highs here relative
equal highs lower to the right than the
one to the left trading up into that Gap
here
and we're going to drop back into
electronic trading
hours notice you don't see any of that
information here like how do you frame
that you have to use the regular trading
hours to see it it's just a way of
determining this is what you have to
have now if let's say for instance you
didn't have this function down here
electronic trading hours and regular
trading hours because for some platforms
it's not available it wasn't available
it wasn't anything that people would be
able to talk too okay but understanding
that element of time because it's time
then
price you would have those levels on
your chart
anyway so this here this line here that
I just annotated with the regular
trading hours for previous regular
session trading settlement
price goes all the way back over to the
previous day and where we settled
[Music]
415 so it's a matter of managing what
you're looking for what what makes a key
level
key what time is important what are you
trying to derive from that time that
makes that level key so all those things
are the beginning building blocks Caleb
for you to
determine your obvious draw draw on
liquidity it means the thing that's so
overwhelmingly obvious when it's like
that that's when you're anticipating a
price run that's when you would
eventually push a demo button that's
when you would eventually press a button
that would contribute to a trade for
your funded account combine and then
eventually when you get funded what
you're focusing on to take a trade with
that funded account and then eventually
get to the point where you can take out
a withdrawal and there it is you take
out money you fund your Live account
with a real brokerage
firm leave the funded account
entirely and then you've done it on your
own that's what that expects that's what
I want that's what I'm aiming
for take that off because I don't need
it and we have endg new opening Gap so
we just saw let me put it back on here
that's the that's the previous
settlement price but it can we it can
Wick through that so if it's going to
Wick through that it could go right up
into New Day opening Gap because it's
just about that you see that which is
the reason why you have to have these
levels either in a notepad referring
back to them periodically throughout the
morning or the afternoon session while
you're watching price anticipating
certain elements measuring whether or
not it has the ability to maintain once
it books to these levels or does it want
to just keep powering through and if it
just rips through them all then you got
to go out to a high time frame 15 60
Minute 4H hour daily what is it reaching
for what is it reaching for so there's
an old daily High we talked about on
Tuesday if you watch that you know what
I'm referring to I'm not going to De it
here but it's not necessary for that to
be there because if it's like this and
it has the endg right there that I'm
just going to observe and study the end
offg it doesn't need to touch it but if
it if it goes above pre settlement
price it's going to reach to that which
is we're basically you know St stating
the same thing it's just going to go up
just to another level
here I'm going to be with you all until
11:30 today
so no hurry for anything
very sloppy Ming so
far now when you say that ICT what what
do you mean when you say it's sloppy or
unor organized usually when I'm saying
it's either disorganized it's
unorganized or it's sloppy meaning that
it's really not showing a great deal of
conviction one way or the other even
though there's movement I'm not going to
I'm not going to argue and say there
isn't price movement here there isn't
anything clean that's so overwhelmingly
obvious which is the whole point of me
doing these lectures for
Caleb you're benefiting from seeing the
stark contrast between when you'll hear
me say this is really clean price action
and then when I do
that or in this case when I say this is
very unorganized or it's disorganized or
it's sloppy you want to take a
screenshot of this and the things I'm
about to refer to that kind of
differentiates it between that being
something that is not a very easy
navigation where you can get in clearly
see what it wants to react off of and
immediately run away from that go to a
specific level that's so obvious in the
chart you have so many things here that
are conflicting so
if if I have a u if I have a a barrel or
a bucket of of apples okay and I reach
into that bucket of apples and then my
sons each grab an apple and we all throw
the Apple up in the A and I tell my wife
grab an
apple which
apple or impulsively just going to grab
any one of them okay but what happens if
one of those apples are a granny smith
they're green and then all the other
ones are just a regular red one so if I
say when we throw these apples up you
can't open your eyes up until I say open
your eyes after we've done released them
in the air but your job is to only reach
and grab the green
apple we all throw the apples on the air
and then I say open your eyes and then
my wife opens her eyes up and the first
thing she's going to go to is look at
all these green I mean look at all these
red apples and then let's find the green
or she's going to see the green one but
her eyes are going to jump to the other
red
ones so what do you what do you have
there it's chaff you have you have
things that are drawing your attention
that aren't obvious versus okay close
your eyes I'm going to take the singular
singular green apple I'm going to pick
it up and when I throw it up in the air
in front of you I want you to open your
eyes and catch it you see how easy that
is that's the benefit of looking at
Price action that's
clean it's very very clean there's only
a few elements that are in the present
price action not that there is that
characteristic right now that's not what
I'm saying I'm saying by contrast when
you have a lot of this in
here okay back and forth like
that there are levels that I've shown
you here that it's respecting it's
drawing to the levels that we have here
but is it obvious which one it wants to
respect next and where it's going to go
to next that's what's missing right now
it may clear up once we get through the
first 30 minutes of 10:00 hour so post
10:30 we might get something entirely
different in terms of the delivery price
but right now nothing in here is
terribly exciting whether you made money
or not if you've lost that's the reason
why if you made money I wouldn't build
too much around that
we did in fact trade down to 20% of the
weekly range when we traded here which
overlap with the upper quadrant of
yesterday's opening range so when
there's a Confluence of those types of
levels what happens if you
have the
previous two days ago opening range or
opening range Gap level in addition to
one or two of these elements here and
there's a PD and it's happening to form
in a macro time first 10 minutes before
the top of the hour to 10 minutes after
the top of the hour then you probably
have a really really good reaction
coming so then all you have to know at
that time is where is the smooth are in
price where is it likely to draw to on
the very short term and that's the
beginning block building blocks of
reading and and tape reading reading
price not for setups but to build this
Rapport between watching candlesticks
form removing the concern about the
chaos that you're watching and thinking
how am I going to be able to read this
how am I going to be able to determine
this you're just looking for the obvious
and if
it's a lot of filtering in your part to
do that you're going to see not in the
beginning because there's going to be
days where like for instance like
yesterday okay I had people watching me
I'm quite certain that they were like
man you know why isn't he part of this
why why he why he doing this and why he
doing that you're forgetting that I'm
trying to teach my son how to go in and
look for easy obvious setups that his
scale level that's what he's supposed to
be focusing on now not me getting out
here and just trying to impress people
that's not what this is you'll be
impressed in a little while a couple
months but right now we're just focusing
on what my son needs to focus on and
you're just being invited to the launch
and some of you don't deserve to be
here so here we have what I was
referring to it's a lot of
back and forth back and forth back and
forth but what is it working off
of the previous opening Range High see
that down into 20% of the weekly
range rallied come back down
in rallied at
930 trades back down in Touching one
more time opening Range High once more
here relative equal highs everything's
jaing here trades back up into today's
opening range Gap that I highlighted and
showed you but is not annotated on the
chart here and the draw up into the new
day opening gap which it can sweep
through we do have relative equal highs
notice that right
here see that so there's a little bit of
liquidity
there and with all of this action here
the only thing that really stands out is
that volume and balce which we just
traded to on that candle and my eyes
I don't trust it I don't think that one
touched it again but right in here so we
could see it potentially expand up and
engage the liquidity right there so you
can have your chart look like
this and these are all the the simple
things that you're doing while learning
how to read where price is going to go
because if you don't have this part of
it down nothing anybody tells you in
terms of buying and selling what
indicators buy and sell none of that
stuff's going to help you have to know
with practice it could potentially trade
to this level for what reason real
orders that are resting in the
marketplace what I would have liked to
see I would have liked to seen it keep
the Gap open like we had yesterday run
lower for a little while down into the
consequent encroachment and had it gone
down here this is the actual level I was
going to point your attention to there
because it would have been like here's
con validation drop and then drop once
more so that'd be second stage
distribution and then down here would be
smart money reversal then something low
risk buy accumulation reaccumulation and
then send us up into that so that' be a
market maker buy model but we had this
uh all this business in
here
[Music]
for for
back into New Day opening gap for
today I saw a few people leave comments
yesterday about the the volume and my
advice is to listen to it through
headphones because I can hear it fine
and I don't need to the volume all the
way up so I if you're working in a Jiffy
Lube and you hear the impact wrench you
behind you or he you your surrounding
noise at your workplace I can't I can't
fix that for you get yourself some
headphones all right so we have
institutional order for entry drill
there the wick over top of new day
opening Gap so study that Caleb and see
if it wants a send price from what we
just seen here leaving this portion open
and see if it can push up in there and
engage that liquidity there
when you're watching
this observations things that you're
looking at every time you do a
measurement on delivery what does that
mean like we this outline there if we're
looking at something that might be a
catalyst for price to react off of and
where it may reach to you're not trying
to be right you're not trying to you
nail it down to the very perfect Turning
Point you're just trying to recognize
just like when someone takes you hunting
you've never been hunting before or how
do you track well they take you out
through the snow or in the mud and I say
look down here you see that and you'll
see a footprint you don't know what
you're looking at sometimes but the
person that understands it will say yeah
this is a raccoon footprint this is a
bare footprint this is a deer
hoof it's teaching you initially this is
what it looks like so that way every
time we pass one I'll point that out to
you because you start seeing it being
pointed out to you you recognize it
certain characteristics repeat not all
of them are going to look identical but
every single time you do it you're
getting another measurement of increased
understanding because you're being
exposed to it so when you have a
observation and it doesn't have to be
the ones I point
out whenever you're looking for price to
behave a certain way or you think it
might behave a certain way you want to
write down the
time the time you observed it and the
time it took to either trade where you
thought it was or completely close over
now the observation I pointed out here
buy B sell sign efficiency in that one
single little candle we're studying to
see if this Gap stays open any small
little portion of it is all it's
referred to it's better for it not to
completely close down to that it can but
it's better if it doesn't for what
purpose to leave some of that open and
then explore whether or not they're they
want to take this liquidity they don't
have to it doesn't have to be traded to
right now but every time you do this
you're getting a measurement on price
delivery so you want to see how much
time it takes from your point of
identifying it how fast it runs in your
favor or how fast it runs against you
and then how much time
it took to deliver where you thought it
was going to go and what that does it
gives you a baseline of how many
observations are you seeing each session
and in the beginning you're not going to
see very many of them Caleb you don't
know what you're looking for but because
of natural progression of just simply
doing it over and over and over again
each day not trying to press the button
not trying to be right you're not trying
to be profitable in your your
observations you're trying to build a
recognition
and repetition builds that recognition
you can't recognize the situps until you
look for them and don't be afraid of
Doing It Wrong looking at observations
and price and measuring all of these
data points will give you a Baseline and
you will see progress based on that
because in your journal every day when
you're done you want to have a little
tally of how many opportunities did you
watched real
time how many times did you do a
measurement on price delivery and again
in the beginning you're not going to
have very many of them and that's not a
bad thing that's not a it's not a knock
against you it's not some kind of a a
concern but it's a baseline beginning
point and in weeks from now you'll start
seeing maybe three or four each session
and then you by the end of the year
you'll probably see all kinds of them
and then what that does is when you have
a a collection of a dozen or so that you
can see real time forming you're to see
because of experience the things that
you don't have yet right now that you
haven't really focused on or hasn't been
made apparent to you that are more
critical to your understanding than the
things that you're holding on to right
now you're thinking certain things are
much more important and you're
constantly looking to satisfy those
concerns versus just simply letting go
of the necessity of being right or
wrong forget that that's that's not what
this this stage of your development is
about it's for you to Simply look at
Price observe elements and
characteristics that tend to do certain
things and if it's likely to do these
types of things how often can you
observe them without being proded and
pointed to saying here's watch this
watch this thing right here and if you
keep record of how many you're doing
each
time the experience Factor will kick in
and you will have a me it won't feel
like you've gained much understanding at
all because you won't be pushing buttons
and trading with money yet not even in a
demo but you'll be
observing that your ability the skill
set of finding the opportunity of seeing
when price should start at one place and
travel to the
next that's navigating price action
that's you understanding how price has
the likelihood not guarantee the
likelihood of performing a certain
delivery in price High higher or
lower and because you have no Baseline
to start with to determine how far along
you should measure your your progress
you have to start somewhere right and by
having a a documentation of how many
observations that you're recognizing
while watching price action just simply
tape reading and then weeks from now
when it won't technically feel like
you've gained much of an understanding
which is what most of my students feel
like because they're impatient and the
way you stem and Stave off that
impatience factor is that you're
measuring your opportunities that you
can observe in real-time price action
without any kind of help or
prodding and removing the element of I
have to be right to impress that or I
have to be right every single day or
it's failure it's that's not how that's
not how you're doing it okay you're
looking at how you will be able to
measure with data how many opportunities
are available and that you have
available by your own skill set that
will increase as you go further along
each time making a little bit more
deposit in your
understanding and then when you see the
data even if it doesn't feel like you've
gained much in terms of experience or
understanding when you start looking at
your first week of doing it and say well
I couldn't see much at all dad had to
point it all out and then a couple weeks
after that you're like oh I can see one
or two each session but I had five wrong
but I saw two of them that were right
don't look at the five you had wrong and
say I'm failing look at the two you did
right what is there that you saw because
that is your very first multiplier
that's your PD that's the thing that
your eyes seeing the other ones maybe
you just simply forcing because either
impatience or you just didn't see it and
that's that's okay there's going to be
moves that's going to move without you
it's not a big
deal but you correctly manage your
expectations
and the assumptions of what your
progress should be or shouldn't be at
that time and you can't argue with the
DAT that says this is where you started
and you had next to zero opportunities
that you identified without help then
one or two but a lot of them you didn't
see pan out and then what'll happen is
that that margin and difference between
the ones that you thought were going to
pan out and the ones that did pan out
they'll start equalizing they'll be half
and half that's progress it doesn't feel
like progress anyone looking outside
that wants to be critical they'll say
you suck you can't do everything or
you're looking at losers still like they
don't take losers okay I take losing
trades you've seen that I I can do it
wrong and you have to give yourself the
the ability to be flexible in the
beginning especially in the beginning
not to have all of this I have to be
right I have to do it correctly each
time because if you have that that
that's going to stunt your growth and
it's going to cause you to have a whole
lot more doubt
every time you do it and you don't seek
a gold medal every time you do it you're
not looking for that you're looking for
measured progress and the only way you
get that is by keeping data on how many
opportunities you study and guess what
if you're not going to study the chart
and watch it real time you're going to
have zero and then then you have no
progress right so that's what happens
when I have students that come to me and
they'll say I've been watching your
stuff I've been studying your stuff I
look at your stuff and I I I I I can't
make it work okay well how how are you
back testing show me your back testing
show me your log show me your Journal
well it's crickets because they know
they have nothing to bring forward to
say here's the proof I went through it
not five pages of scribbled that it was
just done just to say here's our
argument that's not that's not valid
that's not a valid argument we have to
you have to be months of this and you're
studying how many observations you
looked for this certain thing to pan out
in price and does it pan out how how
long did it take what time did it start
what time did it end and then by doing
that you'll be able to look at the data
and say this is how many times I started
learning this and I couldn't find it
then progress over a couple weeks then I
was able to find some but I was still
pick on them wrong and then a month
later you'll have the beginning stages
of Equalization where you have half and
half where you'll still see some that
work and others that don't that's a
really good mile marker for your
progress and then what happens is after
that the the times that you do it
incorrectly they don't pan out for you
they will diminish and you'll have
better
correct price delivery me uh
measurements of every time you see price
behaving a certain way it should do this
and not do that run here but don't go
here and see how long it takes for those
things to pan
out by looking at the progress that you
have doing it that way you have
something that statistic
statistically measured against a
baseline starting point whereas if you
don't start doing it and you're not
consistently trying to do it each day
you won't have progress you won't have
experience building in you and you won't
be able to reassure yourself and
encourage yourself because the data will
support that you are indeed getting
better at it even though emotionally and
psychologically and the fact that you
haven't made money trading yet because
that's what everybody wants that's what
the that's the real report card am I
able to make money with it well it's
unrealistic for you to expect that
you're going to make real money with it
in the first six months I've been very
obvious and and forthright with that I
don't I've never made any kind of
argument against anything less than if
you done any kind of study at all and
it's less than six
months I'm not surprised if you don't
find success in it monetarily MoneyWise
making money because you don't know
enough you haven't done enough
exploration in your own observations
what are you doing wrong because that's
the benefit of having price delivery
measurements where you're looking at
this is what I think price is going to
do right now and you're doing it in the
privacy of your own chart you're not
talking about it on social media you're
not trying to share it okay you're
simply just saying this is what I'm
trying to do I'm OB observing price
right now and I want to see does it
behave this way or not and if it doesn't
wonderful cuz that I can go in and I can
study what did I see wrong what did I do
wrong there do not say well that one
didn't work I'll pretend it never
happened because you know I didn't I
didn't push the button so it doesn't
make a difference that's the wrong
perspective wrong wrong perspective okay
you want to be able to see where you did
it wrong because that's where your best
learning is going to come from obviously
if you do it right you want to Champion
that in your Journal say I feel really
good that I was able to see this one but
I missed on these these didn't perform
as as much as I thought they would but
this is my takeaway from it I didn't
notice this or that this was my
indication that it wasn't going to pan
out and now that I can see it I I have
this information and new experience to
lean on the next time you hear what I
just did there you're not putting
blinders on saying oh I I didn't do it
wrong or if you did it wrong say I ain't
worried about that like people do with
demo accounts they'll open a demo
account press press press press press
and they'll show the 20 trades that they
have in Gold where they're doing 50 Lots
where they don't even have the money to
trade with 50 lots and there's 20 of
them okay and this was before everybody
was doing the 20 funded account you know
linking them together this just that was
every everybody thought that that was
everybody's uh success or
not and they're all
within two or three ticks of the same
price so they're just going in there
just buying buying buying buying buying
because they want to see a screen to
show on social media where all these
trades are making 6,000 8,000 $10,000 a
piece they're absolutely I'm going to
tell you something people that make that
kind of money are not rushing to social
media to show that they're doing that
they don't care they're living their
life and they're doing well so you don't
want to have that
inspiration to to draw your attention to
what is working only and avoiding or
ignoring the time so that it doesn't
work you want to focus in what you're
doing wrong at that
time perfect example right here here's
your fair value Gap that's where your
stop would have been hypothetically it's
not a
trait that would have closed it right
there so it left relative equal
highs it started with this candle right
there so your time would be
1022 it
moved to
1031 so it moved 9 Minutes in favor
other words it moved in the right
direction wasn't able to get above this
High
here and then at 10
37 it would have it would have stopped
out on that trade so that way you can
record that so now you have one piece of
data one data point say if this is your
first one you would record that so right
away you you actually have a very humble
beginning the first one you start with
didn't pan out that's wonderful but if
you don't have the right perspective and
trying to learn you look at that and
think well you know this is very dis
this this is disenchanting I'm not real
encouraged by this and that's the same
thing that happens when people get their
Live account or they pass their funded
account they're paralyzed because they
don't want to take that first
trade now we have this we have relative
equal lows taken here relative equal
highs here and relative equal highs here
where is it Jagged here what are we
trading into Now new day opening Gap
so now we can look at as an observation
here do we or can we see it trade above
new day opening Gap and then come back
down and touch it if it does then we can
measure that that's another time
delivery measurement where we can simply
study what price does with the
expectation that does it want to trade
above here and grav gravitate back to
here we're not thinking about well if if
I would have had 15 contracts on here
because my funded account company says I
can trade with 15 contracts and I would
have lost on 15 contracts being stopped
out right there that's what you're doing
you're looking at can you see what price
is likely to do and these are what the
opportunities look like can start just
simple things like this this is so much
better and
more profitable for your learning than
just going in and pushing a button or
chasing what price has already been
doing and just trying to get something
to happen because you want to be
inspired by that fake profit you want to
be inspired by the screenshots of
showing that you made XYZ amount of
money but you don't even know why got in
that trade that has to be something you
can observe and repeat and this is the
boring stuff that feels like you're
spinning your wheels it feels like
failing it feels like you're not doing
something productive because you're not
even you're not even entering any orders
but this is exactly what you
do and you spend time watching price
like this and it's on really nice days
it's fun when days that like like we're
having here it's a lot of give and take
back forth price action and price isn't
as clean whereas if you looked at this
run in
here we only have this Gap and that Gap
everything else Watch What Happens we
have this run here then it trades back
down creating that first fair value Gap
then the next candle we trade down a
little bit and then run Above So this
previous candle has a lot of that range
overlapped
here back and forth inside that range
now we're working off of this gap which
became what inversion fair value Gap and
rallies you could have used this one cuz
I was jaw buing about something else you
could have used this one as
a a measurement to see if it can trade
to the new day opening Gap from here to
there and you time okay from here to
there how many candles did it take on a
one minute chart so that's how much time
it took was there any heat on the Move
okay how much movement away once we left
see the bodies once we left it did it
ever come back down to take that low out
there
not before taking the run into that new
day opening
Gap and by observing these things and
don't be afraid to do it after the fact
like if you have no ability to watch it
live go back in and like for instance I
was expecting to have my son sitting
next to me yesterday too so that was
another thing that was irritated by
because he had to work so his job Chang
the schedule on him and we usually are
able to you sit side by side on
Thursdays and I didn't I didn't have
that opportunity so I was a little
perturbed by that it was irritating me
and I had a lot of a lot of other things
on on my mind at the time and a very
abbreviated time that I could spend with
you because I had to be off about
10:30 which I noted at the beginning of
the recording yesterday it wasn't me
saying oh I'm going to rage quit and say
I can't do nothing today it was already
predetermined before we even got into
it all right so now let's play Devil's
ad for a
moment let's say you did an
observation on this one here and you
tried to use institutional order your
drill I want to see if I can get
anything off of that PDA right it
rallies a little bit because you have
taken
uh on this one here could you have taken
10 handles out of that run yeah could
you have gotten 20 probably not 15 yeah
so if you're going to be doing these
examples what is your Thresh
what are you trying to do well if it's
es you're looking for five handles if
you can get five handles and hypo
hypothetically say okay I'm satisfied
with that I would be done and that would
be your observation that's your
measurement that one would be done and
then if it's e if it's NASDAQ you want
to have at least 10
handles 10 handles I prefer 15
personally because that kind of forces
you to look for a range that affords you
20 points or 20 handles from where you
think it's going to react to where it's
going to draw to so if you can get 20
handles out of it it's reasonable to
anticipate being able to capture 15
that's my personal filter like if I can
if I can see 20 I know I got a good
chance of getting 10 minimum or 15 which
is TP you know get a typical second
partial and
then if it can run the 20 great if it
doesn't I don't care because there's
always some kind of an opportunity where
the stop loss can be moved to where it's
not a losing trade per se it covers cost
covers commissions and gives me pizza
money or whatever but you need to have a
threshold of what you're looking for so
don't demand also that it is a setup
that has to pan out to the Target
meaning this where we were watching this
fair value Gap and this right here that
candle that would be institutional order
interal why because it just goes below
these candles here but doesn't close
that Gap in so that would be your marker
to start it and if it can go run 10
handles boom you're out and need not
trade above the relative equal highs
which would have been the draw to see if
we can get that type of
run we did another one in here we
watched and see did it go above the new
day opening Gap touch it it didn't do
that it went above it with a spike with
that Wick but has not created a a candle
that come back down to touch it so the
second one that we're anticipating and
studying has not came to fruition here
we have a fair value Gap
there and now we have this inversion
fair value Gap so you want to study does
this fair value Gap get taken to the
upside if it does if it comes back down
touches again we can treat that as an
inversion fair value Gap like it did
here there and then sent it higher so
this Gap in here study that to see if it
acts as an inversion fair value Gap or
does it respect it here to drop back
down into that Gap
again you're not trying to be right
you're trying to recognize a pattern
that makes sense because there's all
kinds of ways the trade you can be a
Perpetual bull like I was when I first
started or you can be someone that's
going to be flexible that you can say I
can be a buyer and a seller but you also
don't know what you're comfortable with
you don't know if you're trying to
capture a continuation trade you don't
know if you're trying to capture a
reversal and I'm trying not to push that
on you because if I push that on you
that means I'm pushing you into a mold
and it's going to cause you to take a
whole lot more time trying to live up to
that mold versus you organically trying
to learn how to read price on your on
your own
[Music]
watch the wick right
here watch and see if it can touch that
does it react off that and d drop right
in here we have two two gaps in
here we have this
one which is Trading into here and then
we have this one here this is a normal
fair value Gap bearish fair value Gap
this is an inversion fair value Gap
where it's gone below it now let me draw
it
[Music]
out see
it and then we have inside that one we
had the small one there which is just a
standard be very b
[Music]
g excuse
me and if you look right here I was
taking your attention to this
Wick trading up into that we want to see
does it have an ability to trade down
into this old Gap
here okay so you would screenshot
that right
there so what we had is inversion fair
value Gap here and then a bearish fair
value Gap
that is a very very nice model when you
have a directional bias that leads to
that
directional
run we have a bearish order block that
candle here because it had the highest
up close versus this one don't look at
this and think that that's the bearish
order Block it's this one it's inside of
the fair value Gap here and it also
traded into the inversion Fair B Gap
there the key is watching this Wick
trade up into it here if it's
bearish what would it do or specifically
what would it not do it would not
touch the midpoint of that Gap or Wick
which is what we have right
here see
that trades up but doesn't touch the
midpoint so is that weak or strong weak
to next you can open if it trades up
volume in balance that could be an entry
to
here see that so all these little
observations these are this is what
you're doing while you're watching price
you you probably have been if you're the
other people that that's not my son I'm
referring to now other students or
casual viewers or people that listen to
say you know I It's tap read what is
tape reading this is tape reading these
are the things that you do while you're
watching price you should not be
watching live streamers if you don't
know how to trade if you know how to
trade then sure you know watch them and
and enjoy watching it but you're
literally wasting your time if you're
not watching my videos to learn these
types of things and that you want to put
them to work
yourself you're wasting your time you're
not going to learn it by watching my
videos okay I promise you I don't care
how many times you watch them you're not
going to know how to do it because you
don't know what you're doing because you
haven't done any lab work you haven't
gone in there and and put yourself in
front of the charts and tested the
things and looked for it because you
don't want to see it fail or you're
afraid it's going to fail so you don't
even bother bother to do it it's like
you you let everything else around you
influence you and it keeps you from
doing the very work and this is the work
this is the stuff that you're supposed
to be
doing this is probably more money than
you ever made in a trade if you would
have took it with a real money and it's
because it's something that you you
don't want to do it that's all it's just
laziness
if you believe other other people's
opinions about me or whatever I teach
well that then why are you watching the
videos why
bother because you're waiting for
something to make it real easy that's
why and this is the part that makes it
easy you got to be in the charts got be
in there doing it tear down into this
inefficiency here getting reaction back
up
and if we overtake this inversion fair
value Gap this could become a reclaim
bullish got but it would have to trade
above it come back down and touch it and
then we can look for
here and
here but then you're waiting okay so
it's it's a matter of simply looking for
certain things
that could you don't need them to you
don't demand that they do but they could
deliver a certain response in price that
can be reasonably expected but you want
to start with a lowest threshold of what
you're aiming for what you're trying to
do well this candle into that Wick right
there to here that that's 10
handles and that's a real easy low
threshold OBS observation and then what
you do is when you see this Caleb you
say okay now if this would have been a
trade that you would have trusted
because it becomes part of your model
because something that you have seen
enough examples of that I know that it
could potentially traded these levels
here but what happens if I'm on side and
it gives me just a little bit more juice
out of that lemon well then you use this
as a partial and you aim for something
in this price run over
here I was talking about this
uh I don't know if it was yesterday now
but I was talking about the market maker
buy and sell models and when you're
trading inside the range you look for
all the short-term lows in here anything
singular or relatively equal and or any
inefficiency and that's what you have
here and the market trades down into it
on that run so you can take
this and that would be a Terminus for
you any one of these levels top
consequent encouragement or the
low which one's the easiest one to get
to the high so that's the one you use
Caleb you don't demand that it goes
halfway you don't demand that it goes
all way to the low you don't demand that
it trades through it you simp simply
just look for the easiest threshold of
being profitable if it were a trade that
you were in and if you start like that
and you just let it build up and build
up and build up look at that response
right off of that bottom of that with
the bodies that's
pretty the U it's also again tapping
into that that Gap in here let me draw
it with the lines that way it's
stays visual
[Music]
okay
that's the wrong color I apologize if
that's throwing off I just want to
highlight it because that was a gap let
just keep it uh like
this it's been used already so it's dimm
down a little bit so now we're below
that old Gap remember this one over
here here let's see if it wants to touch
that one more time and does it react off
that and make an attempt to go below
this low or does it trade back above it
and trade as support and then rally back
and engage this area as
well now if it if you haven't already
thought about this and since we're
watching a one minute chart there will
be a time in the future that you'll be
able to sit down in this time frame and
capture 10 or 15 handles going up 10 or
15 handles going down 10 or 15 handles
going up maybe lose one one or two Catch
10 or 15 handles going down maybe lose
one more 10 or 15 handles up 10 or 15
handles up 10 or 15 handles loss 10 or
15 handles loss not that you lose that
much but you you have the ability to
trade five six eight maybe 10 times in a
day and on a one minute time frame
that's not overtrading because there's
so many opportunities that you can trade
and then you can be making 100
points 100 Handles in a single day even
if the range doesn't move 100 handles
from the highest high and the lowest
low and you want confidence that's
confidence because if you can do
something like that any s any given time
where you sit down and say okay um I
don't care about what the volatility
going to be today it might not be a very
large range day so I'm just going to go
in and I'm going to scout so I'll look
for little tiny little setups that give
me fluctuations in price that are
reasonable put a limit order in at 10 or
15 handles based on the things that
we're looking for and then bang take
it then when it's done move to the
sidelines relax and wait for another one
it's very fun but if you look at it like
I have to do it or I want to do lots
more than what's reasonable for my skill
level you're inviting all these external
stimuli in here and because the natur
progression of going through these
things there're not always immediate
feedback that's positive and that
tickles you doesn't make you always feel
good because sometimes it's like okay I
thought I saw something there and it
wasn't there so what do I do now you go
to the next one you go to the next one
you go to the next one and you're you're
completely desensitizing yourself to the
outcome if you're afraid if you're
afraid to lose you have to go out and
you have to lose you have to do it wrong
and you don't want to do that with a
live account not even with a $10000
account not even with a $250 account I
had to learn with a real account okay
you learned all the wrong lessons and
now they're going to be problematic to
you and you can lie and tell to the
public that follow you on your social
media account and say oh I don't have
those problems trade live do it in front
of everybody and you'll show everybody
that you do have those problems okay so
to avoid all that stuff is don't have it
in the beginning
don't hold yourself to a standard that
you have to have high strike rate if you
just started learning or if you just now
became serious let's say it that way if
you just started learning how to become
serious about studying price and you
were using me as a as a means of helping
you do
that then remind yourself that you don't
have to have a high strike rate that's a
Hallmark for someone that's been doing
it a long long time doing what their one
model that they Trust TR the most that
they can they they can see it forming
every
day what is a model that can form every
single day like what what is a trade
setup for Life what would something like
that look like Well when the market has
made a very obvious run to a key level
you were anticipating and then it starts
to break down and there's a very clear
inefficiency or relative equally low
that's in play and there's time in the
day that affords the market to perform
and deliver on that
basis that that setup that criteria is
there every single day and you can find
it on a one minute chart you can find it
on a 30 second chart you can find it on
a 15-second
chart so there there is an opportunity
for you when you know your model to
trade every single day but it's a
mistake and anyone that pretends to be a
mentor that tells you that you should be
trying to make money every single day
wrong that's not a lesson that a new
trators should be given that you're not
trying to make money you don't even know
what the hell you're doing you don't
know what you're expecting to see you
have no idea no idea and you don't know
what the person that's pretending to be
a mentor is really trying to
communicate they'll talk about it
afterwards they'll point out the salian
points afterwards it sounds scientific
it sounds
intellectual but it wasn't given
beforehand
so is it really foresight is it real
knowledge or is it just
sounding smart after it's obvious in the
chart think about
it there's a there's a TED Talk that I
gotta find it now it just came to mind
just now uh is a it's a awesome Ted Talk
is a guy that uh young guy he comes out
there and he's he's wearing his glasses
and typical nerdy little guy and he's
starts talking about nothing really but
it sounds like he's talking about
something really engaging in his
mannerisms and his delivery and his tone
and his pauses and then he over
accentuates certain aspects of the
things he's referring to and then he he
go now what I just was doing I was
talking and I really said
nothing and then but you seem like
you're learning something from me
because of what I'm saying how I'm
saying it in the delivery and I'm
wearing these glasses and they're not
even they don't have any glasses in it
like he puts his fingers to it it's a
really amazing presentation because it
starts off like wow what's this young
man going to talk about and it's
engaging and he walks around he carries
himself his body language everything and
that's basically what an infomercial
does and the only thing that's is
important that you notice is the product
that they're standing next to but
they're talking and they're bloing about
a lot of stuff and they're really not
doing anything they're not saying
anything
and I've seen that a lot with people
that live stream I've seen that with
people that pretend to know what they're
doing and teaching and they don't really
teach they're not really teaching and
you can hear what they're teaching is
absolutely backwards because they'll say
you have to trade every day they'll say
every day is a winning day every day is
a opportunity to trade with real money
or you can't learn how to trade unless
you trade with real money you have to
have skin in the
race well you know you know what you
done
by doing that you have further
multiplied the level of
certainty that it will be harder to
learn it because now you've made a
painful
response absolutely the outcome because
you're going to trade with real money no
matter how much it is if it's lure or
not and you're going to have an outcome
that's going to be unfavorable and then
you're going to have the regret of I
wish I never would have did with live
money because now that small little $25
loss while it's insignificant it cost
probably more for you to go to eat
poison from McDonald's at a drive-thru
then take that $25 loss but that $25
loss is going to be like a piece of meat
between your teeth you're going to find
your tongue keep going back to it you
wish you had one of these little dental
floss things to get it out it's going to
plague you all day long and what are you
goingon to want to do about it you're
gonna want to fix it right so how do you
do it take take another trade and now
that 50 loss on the day is there
now you're angry I wish I never would
have start with a real account I wish I
would have known what it was I was
trying to do that way I was bored I see
it forming if it's obvious in the chart
I'll see it and then you try to fix it
again and now that $150 account that you
want to start with real
money has 50 bucks in
it not counting
commissions but
hey it's 11 o'clock in the morning
there's plenty of time to get it back
let's go in there it's only it's only
$100 $150 who cares if I lose it I can
just re I can just replenish it that's
the wrong mentality that's the wrong
mentality but that's what goes on that's
what keeps repeating that's what mentors
out there that should not be mentoring
Foster those
mindsets they enable you to have those
same
viewpoints and people pay them
people pay them for that flawed
logic so we have had multiple attempts
in here at that old per value Gap right
there we inside it with the
bodies the only thing we've done is
worked into a retracement of all this
choppy range bound price action so if we
measure that from
here to there we traded right down into
that which is equilibrium so we have had
this Gap traded to didn't quite come
down to I was I was watching to see if
it would touch that it didn't do it but
now we're above that old Gap here let's
see if we can touch it on the downside
let me get this FIB out of the way
because give a level that I don't want
you focus on I want you this this is
what I want you to see so we have this
Wick midpoint of that I like to see it
go over that a little bit and touch this
Gap and then respond a little bit
there's nothing in here for
inefficiency so where we're at it's
indicating that it could use this old
reference point over
here keep the body inside of it it keeps
a little tail down here that's
fine I should have grabbed the full
water when I brought myself myself down
here came here but a half a bottle of
water I would have liked to seen that
candle have the body inside of that Gap
that would have been a little bit more
obvious than what it's did
here for
now I want you to think about actually
take a screenshot of this price action
as it is right here let me make it a
little bit
better like that okay now be honest
looking at this do you see very
clear impulsive legs going up leaving
One S singular inefficiency in it like a
fair value Gap Maybe One Singular
short-term low and then it runs up to an
obvious level and then drops down with a
nice retracement price swing that has
only one singular fair value Gap and
then runs away quickly lower to an
obvious level that react off of and
trade higher if you don't see that
that's the indication that this is not a
day that you keep pushing really hard
and it's also a day that you demand a
lot
more convictions behind what you're
trying to engage even if even if you
don't have your model yet being flexible
with it I like that right
there watch this candle halfway here I
want to see does it want to run up take
up that high if it runs up and takes
this high I would want to see speed take
us into this Gap it's the red right
there
so this
high it's been taken
out next reference point is here which
is the old Gap and then we have the
liquidity resting rad about that high
right there so I'm not going to keep
these lines here I'm just going to use
that line there to annotate a very short
term byy
side I'll take this
off we extend this out
you're not trading it you're watching
it man I don't know how my wife sits in
this stupid chair it looked great in the
store it's a um what is
it uh it's called a love
sack we didn't do anything on
it but I don't love it literally
sliding like sliding and SL like
slinking down in it it's really not that
comfortable the stuff that's on it is
comfortable it's real soft but it's
actually not comfortable at
all okay so one more time Wick traveling
inside of the old Gap over
[Music]
here for
lot of back and forth but not real
movement I mean there's movement yeah
but nothing to be terribly excited
about so think about like this it's like
it's it found its way up to here but
it's a lot of back and forth a lot of
back and forth lot of back and forth can
it be traded yes but it's very very
difficult it's not going to be something
that you're going to want to do as your
this is your model this isn't your
choice ideal day or type of environment
you want something that's really nice
and clean it runs higher goes to a r
clear obvious level pulls away from it
and you're not seeing that here there
are inefficiencies here there are
short-term highs and lows here but you
don't have that clear obvious it wants
to go one side or the other and by
having like if you take a picture I was
meant to say that earlier I didn't
finish my statement take a picture of
that just just like it is right
here and this is not a clean Market it's
not a clean Market it's a level of
difficulty for someone that doesn't have
a lot of tools or experience you can get
chopped up this is usually the type of
day where you'll see live streamers or
people that are in their chat they'll
say I got chopped up really bad or the
market just chopped me up or I just got
beat up today it just was crap market
conditions that type of thing this is
usually indicative of what they're
referring to versus days where it's just
really really clear really really
obvious all right so now we
had inversion fair value Gap traded to
here that Gap that we annotated earlier
worked inside that as well one more time
we touched it traded lower we have cell
side resting right below this
low high was taken here so there's
nothing in here that I like except for
the singular one candle that's balanced
over here so always have this to there
so we have this closing price to that
high price is going back and forth
multiple times there so that's why you
get that stop I want that's why I said I
want to see it expand through I want
speed through that because this is a
balanced price range there's no
speed we drifted back lower now we've
showing the bodies respecting that old
gap which is over
here so the next one you can start to
monitor is do we use the wick R in
here in the low of that old Gap to make
an attempt to run below that low
it's Friday we've already have 20%
retracement on the
week and we're seeing lethargic price
action got 15 minutes till the morning
session ends and then we will be
entering the lunchtime
macro see how it's going back and forth
back and forth aimlessly he's not trying
to do anything just do chop back and
forth back and forth by having that
skill that screenshot like this and
identifying how this Market looks by
contrast when the market has not
yesterday yesterday is in completely
different uh Market environment where
it's just one-sided like a railroad
train like a a train just going One
Direction you really can't navigate back
and forth up down up down up down all
day long in that type of environment
it's just get out of the way be on the
right side hold it and be out of the way
that's the better
uh approach to trading that type of
thing so if you didn't get in before it
starts moving don't bother doing it at
all and you see it by how this keeps
pressing higher higher higher higher
with no real retracements and the trap
is for you to chase it and you'll find
by doing that you end up getting beat up
you get scared out of it and then it
won't it won't pan out for
you you want a day that has really nice
volatility doesn't have to be extreme
volatility but it has to move and
separate where we've had back and forth
price action look how it's done this
here we went Above This High here
Consolidated again traded back down into
midpoint of this consolidation then we
try trade it up and then back down trade
it back up trade it back down all of
this is a it's indicative of a day that
is not going to be easy if you're new to
see where the Market's going to go to
where it should be safe not to expect it
to trade back to a specific level and
how to frame multiple setups because
it's part of a very
like the word escapes me I I know when I
when I close the stream later today I'll
probably be on a drive somewhere and
I'll be like that's what I should have
said I should have said this this is
what the the real uh Crux of what I'm
trying to emphasize it just means that
we're seeing a lot of back and forth
It's indecisive there it is is it's
indecisive it's not in a hurry to get
anywhere and you don't want to be
trading especially with a great deal of
frequency in a day like today not that
you can't make money not that you can't
find setups not you can't you be
profitable doing it you just once you do
it you want to be done with it when you
get
there at minor cell side in here
[Music]
okay so we had the bodies on
this right leg run up body stayed inside
they didn't close above that old Gap we
didn't Pierce that high we have a low
taken out here we have a low taken out
here and we pierced the rejection block
there
so we have the early indication of a
fair value Gap there I would like to see
that stay open if it can stay open and
and trade below this low then I think we
can
explore over
here it can touch it and trade into it
and still do that if it wants to go
lower but for the sake of pattern
recognition Caleb and looking for gaps
that want to stay open for the basis of
seeing longer runs if it were to stay
open if this little area right here if
it were completely to close in it's less
likely but still probable that if it
drops below this low we could revisit
this area down here because that's the
low of the day and there's a lot of
liquidity on that a lot of people that
have bought down here and all through
here they've been wanting this to go
higher and every time it's doing all
these types of things it causes
you disenchantment for them
and if it's going to go down there if it
takes out this low I would like to see
it do it rather
quickly whereas any other time this
would be um High Resistance liquidity
run what does that mean because we had
multiple times straighten down down down
down down down and finally sending it
higher usually uh this is a hard area to
get down through if it's going to sell
off because of that very nature because
it's it's it's been used lots of times
okay and then you have the top of this
little consolidation so it's a lot of
order flow that took place in this old
area but because we're entering a time
of day where whatever has transpired in
the beginning of the day so for instance
like 7 o'clock in the morning to 11:30
which is coming up in like 11 minutes or
so this is the the the point of
liquidity that's framed on that first
part of the session or the day so in
other words the majority of the money is
and been made on what being long in the
market or
short the Longs they that's the longest
profitable trade that's been going in
motion today it's the Longs they are the
ones that's been holding the winning
ticket longest for today so if that's
true in the lunch hour is going to make
a run against what has already been in
play kind of like a a midday retrace
but these midday retracements sometimes
can be midday reversals for the whole
day or the week okay so what I'm stating
is is because that we're on a Friday
because it
is seeing that yeah we did rally but
it's had a real hard time finding its
Groove and and traction going up not to
say that they can't start screaming
higher rate from where it's at right now
just go up and keep going up that's
always a given that's a certainty that
is always likely to pan out and then
that's why we have to have stop
losses but if we can identify where the
stop losses are at the beginning of the
day as we went into lunch because
there's really no there's really no
pretty lows in here because if it's
going to go here in my mind I'm thinking
if it could trade below here what would
keep it from going here I I would like
to see it go there if it trades below
this low aggressively and speeds up and
went below that while this is the the
nicer one because it takes out everybody
on the day that that's the Maximum
Carnage
event if it were to trade below this low
and have some speed on the downside I
wouldn't look at this area as a high
resistance liquidity run because I would
have the benefit of having it's
Friday it's been a huge up week since
last Monday we've had two really big
monsters
um relief rallies that came into the
marketplace because the Middle East
didn't explode and we
have further further downside like we we
could still see a 30% retracement on the
week and that will not change the
underlying bullishness of what may be in
motion so it's not like oh you're
calling for too deep of a retrace in ICT
no no it's not actually it's very good
it would be healthy to see a 30%
retracement there's nothing wrong with
that
it doesn't change the underlying
direction of the marketplace I'm not
trying to pick the top right
so look at the look at the
um just the back and forth that's in
here like we get down to here we poke it
by a tick and then there's just back end
these candles that keep overlapping each
other they keep overlapping it's like a
picket fence everything's real close to
the same
previous you know picket in the fence
that the boards they all pretty much are
close to the same length and height than
the next one is that's a day that's an
indication that you're in a day that is
very very comfortable being at the price
it's
at what does that mean it means that
there really isn't any imbalance or
inefficiencies
that's notable to cause the market to
want to go anywhere in One Direction
rather quickly so you have to wait for
those
displacements once they occur in price
action then you have well now you have
something to measure you have the
inefficiency it's either a gap higher or
it's a gap lower and then you measure
how does price react to it once it
trades back into that inefficiency and
then it tips its hand it tells you okay
I'm likely to keep going in the
direction of that Gap no I'm going up
into that Gap just to fade it and now
I'm going to go the other
direction there's that Gap that I said I
wanted to I would like to see it stay
open it hamers around in here and now
we're trading right up into it here so
what what I'm watching is I'm watching
the body of that candle does it close
inside or above this candle's
low imagine you're trying to P you got
250 bucks 250 bucks and then you've
passed your combine you'll have a funded
account and today you're trying to
trade you'll turn that I need to make
$250 into I blew it
or now it's $1,000 I I got to make a
$1,000 versus about just sat still and
waited till Monday or sometime next week
where it was a better Market condition
where it's easy it's Market's making
really nice price runs that it's obvious
you can see where it's reaching
for that's what I'm trying to train you
to see Caleb you you've seen me working
ranges and days that it's just where I'm
pointing out how fast the market runs
and how far it's traveling and not again
don't be confused by what I'm referring
to here and think that that's what that
was yesterday yesterday was it's just
one directional like you you can't you
can't navigate up and down in that type
of day it's just get out of the
way or you have this type of day here
where yes there's fluctuations
occurring there's fluctuations occurring
um I kind of like revealed in the
beginning of the session I'd prefer it
to trade lower I'd like to see that uh
consequent encroachment on uh this over
here I like to see it trade down there
today I may not see it today it might
make a higher high it might erase the
retracement on the weekly range just
today or we could trade down below that
30% level and trade even deeper or just
stay in the range that's already formed
already for today
the the last thing I just said I
wouldn't be surprised if it did that
because of how it's
trading
so there's been times where I've talked
about how I don't trade on Mondays I try
to demand a whole lot from the market on
Monday for the purposes of using it on
Tuesday and the rest of the week for for
directional bias targets um draws on
liquidity that that type of thing there
are times when I don't want to trade on
Fridays and a Friday that has had a
really big run up and on Thursday say it
completes the um the 20 or 30%
retracement on the weekly range which it
didn't it didn't do that it did it this
morning by trading here so when it did
that retracement like that that's 20% of
the weekly range and you can test that
out on your weekly
chart if it were to do a 20 %
retracement on a Thursday when do I
avoid trading Friday when it does that I
don't care what what the market does on
a Friday in that in that instance
then if I have a big weekly range the
candle's been rather elongated and it's
larger than the the the normal weekly
ranges have
been and anybody looking at the last two
weeks they can say that they they they
rather large weekly candles if that's
true and then on Thursday before
Thursday's close we had at any time a
20% of that Weekly range retrace I will
not trade on on
Friday because you'll get this type of
day here whereas we did get the 20%
retracement here because we got that
this is for your notes when you have
that it tends to create these types of
days or
sessions and because it's Friday and it
did it in a morning session of Friday
that means after that 20% retracement
Then the market can become very thickle
and I've used this term before in the
past and people in other countries are
like what do you mean talk plainly talk
talk in more simple terms because they
don't understand what I'm saying it
means that it's back and forth back and
forth back and forth and it
becomes very problematic to see a very
easy sustained price run or a multiple
um
a large number of of opportunities
intraday whereas a day that's not like
this and not one-sided like yesterday
where you can trade both directions the
one minute chart gives you a lot of
freedom to navigate up and down and you
can get multiple opportunities to to
measure 10 or 15 20 minut uh 20 point or
handle runs and get a lot of experience
and practice and that practice becomes
your model your repertoire and then when
you have a fun account or you're trading
with real money you'll know what you're
doing because you can identify the
market conditions oh this is a market
that's going to give me some some
movement today also by learning what I'm
teaching you today is you'll know when
to anticipate these crappy Market
environments because these are some of
the things I'm going to talk about in
two weeks I just gave you one here
because it's salian whatever we're
anticipating TGIF and TGIF can form at
100 p.m on Thursdays New York time okay
why 1 p.m. because we have to at least
give that hour lunch noon to 1:00 to do
whatever it's going to do and
then at 1 pm on
Thursday throughout Friday till Friday's
close I'm always anticipating a 20 to
30% retracement if we have a a elated
larger than the last few weeks weekly
range if it's up then I'm expecting 20
to 30% retracement from the highest high
that's formed at Thursday 1 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time going into Friday's
trading if at any
time if at any
time the market has a 20%
retracement as soon as it does that and
if I have not had a trade I am not going
to trade anymore for the rest of that
week I'm done for the week because it's
fulfilled its upside objectives and then
it's retraced so think about it as a
daily range Power three It's Already
Done its movement so now what am I gonna
be doing I'm gonna be trading in the
uncertainty of where is it going to go
is it going to close higher on the week
is it going to have a deeper
retracement is it going to close in an
unchanged no real event taking us out of
the consolidation it's going to just
Meander around think about how a daily
candle closes in the last few minutes
the last 15 or 30 minutes of a day
there's little things that take off and
cause markets to run but they're not
running a 100 handles they're not they
they're not doing a whole lot of you
know excited excited animated
movement they're doing what they're
staying in a really small range off the
high off the low and they're not trying
to make new ground and they're not
trying to trade back to the middle of
the daily range either so that's why
you're seeing this type of action here
because it's already done this part here
the 20% retracement so the weekly range
has already in my opinion has already
done all the work that it needs to do
now everybody else is sitting in here
trying to do something
extra when power three applied to the
weekly Candlestick has already completed
its role its function on the weekly
Candlestick has done its job now does
that mean prices is going to go sideways
and never change and just create a
straight line to the you know horizontal
line of course not there's going to be
fluctuations in price but the
fluctuations in price are going to be
rather annoying because they're not
going to give you a lot of run there's
not going to be a lot of magnitude and
not a distance closing in on something
it's obvious that it's reaching for does
it make
sense let me give you a graphic
depiction because I'm not I'm not
satisfied with what I just I know what
I'm trying to articulate but I don't
think it's been communicated very well
so let me let me try to just do this for
you let's say for an argument that this
is a candle on The Daily okay so this is
daily power
three this is the highest
high and this is the lowest low and
let's say for instance that the market
starts Trading
right
there okay and then it trades
higher and this is where it closes for
the
day all right
so what we have here is this is a
hypothetical daily range let's for the
sake of argument say that you believed
in advance that it was going to be an up
close day or a big bullish
day and then once it goes to a
Target and then starts to
retrace if we
measure the high to the low that day
20 to 30% if the
market comes off the
high that it forms here after it does
that and you anticipate the market doing
what coming off the high it's not always
going to close on the high if it's
bullish like this usually the close is
going to be an upper third of the
Candlestick so that means here's your
half so if you do it in one third second
third upper third the close is going to
be an upper third of the candle for the
daily range that's power three that's
new information by the way if you didn't
write that down you missed
it but generally what you'll find is
that when it creates its objective to
the upside it'll retrace 20 to
30% on the day not always but now if
apply this same logic to a daily
Candlestick do we anticipate the market
closing on the
highs no but if it starts closing on the
highs then we're probably going to have
a nice retracement or short the
following
day but what does it mean for this day
once we hit our Target and we start
trading down into 20 to 30% of the
range it means it's less likely that
we're going to come back to that
candle's High
because it's already retraced and now
it's going to want to try to settle
between 20 and 30% of the the
range in the upper one3 percentage of
the total daily range now if we take a
Quantum Leap outside of the daily range
perspective and apply that same logic to
the weekly Candlestick the the elements
of TGIF are simply this when the market
trades up for the
week once it's proven itself that it
wants to come back back and start
retracing which is what it does today
here and trades back down into 20% of
the
range that's the equivalent of
this I'm not comfortable because I've
I've chopped up my accounts I've hurt
myself and lost accounts trading
commodities doing these types of things
thinking it's going to go back up here
and make a higher high once it's done
this for the week I'm done because what
you're essentially trying to say is
because we traded down to 20% and now
we're going to say this candle diagram
that's being crudely drawn out here by
me um represents the weekly candle okay
because we had the high here and it
traded down
20% here I'm not confident once it does
this to ever try to trade to get a new
higher
high the the conditions between the high
and the % of retracement after a big up
week generally creates these very
lackluster choppy not real exciting type
of days can it go up and take the high
out and trade higher yes but it doesn't
do it more times than it does this type
of stuff so when can we anticipate
choppy price action when not to get too
excited you want to take a day off as a
live streamer or take a session off if
you trade in front of people and you
know you're doing it live this is a real
good way of saying you know what I I
feel confident that I'm not willing to
worry about what I leave on the table
I'm not worried about how you know my
audience may see me because this is an
environment that I'm not trying to work
within not that you can't find setups
not that you're not a good Trader not
you're not a profitable Trader it just
means that if you spend time identifying
periods in price action where it's just
simply not sexy enough to get me
involved with
it isn't clean enough it isn't obvious
it doesn't give you very clear levels of
this is what it wants to do this is what
it probably will not do and everything's
a a
50/50 do you want to trade in those
environments where it's 50/50 or do you
want to be when the market still hasn't
traded up to this level yet and the
market could potentially trade up and
still reach for something and always
focusing on discount of race going long
and then once it hits that then you can
expect that it might have a 20 to 30 %
retracement so therefore when you do get
those levels up here take the largest
portion off 80 75% of your trade off
because you don't know post 1M on
Thursday when that 20 30% retracement
can materialize and you give up a whole
lot of profit trying to just simply be
greedy and hope for the biggest
run what I just said to you was uh
something that took a lot of time for me
to
trust and
learn and stick to because watching
price action it's easy to convince
yourself wow this is going to do this or
that and it doesn't and it frustrates
you so how do you know when to avoid
certain days when do you know when to
look for this I'm giving you a lot of
that stuff it's very dry information
I'll admit it is very dry but it's
things that help me say I'm not going to
go out on Twitter today and talk about
what candles are going to go up and down
when I was doing all that stuff if there
was days that were more likely to create
these type of wishy-washy days like nah
I'm not interested I would tell my
private students n I'm not going to
trade today I don't like I don't like I
don't see anything I'm not
interested that's the way it
worked sometimes it was be there would
be a day where I wish I would have done
it in hindsight thinking wow you know I
didn't see all of this coming it came
and started really panning out good and
that's going to happen too you can't
expect to be
perfect so so far we've had a 20%
retrace on the week and then we have
been just grinding between
the 7 a.m. start and that 20%
retracement in the upper quadrant of
yesterday's opening
range I'm watching how it behaves in
here e
I'm quite certain
if Caleb wasn't
uh wasn't used to seeing me do this
stuff next to him live and tell him
what's going to happen and trade it and
watch how it pans out
whatnot he would be thinking like
there's no way I'm doing all
this I I would not I will not be doing
all this Dad I can't do it I'm not
interested it's too boring it's dry it
won't I I just don't see myself doing
that
so I understand how many of you and I'm
I'm sure there's a large number of you
that maybe started watching the stream
but then said yeah I can't I can't I
can't watch
this but this is the part that you have
to go through like you got to look at
Price action you have to do
that because you don't know what you're
going to be choosing as a model unless
you're going to force yourself into a
model which I've already produced some
of that stuff already and for some
people that doesn't work for them not
because his Concepts don't work but
doesn't fit them doesn't give them
comfort knowing that what they're doing
makes sense to them they can see it why
it should beave way and trade at certain
time of
day it's uh that's a reality to it and
that's why I teach the way I do I teach
it
where you'll see something that makes
sense for you and you might have a very
easy loow hanging fruit objective where
if I can just get eight handles you know
need to be 10 ICT I I just think if I
got eight handles three times a week
that's plenty enough for
me you know what some of you might hear
that and think man that's not enough I
wouldn't do that and other people like
you know what I never thought about that
that means I could take two days
off
yeah like but you're thinking I got to
be here every day I got to be here every
session I got to trade Forex I got to
trade Futures I got to trade trade
crypto I got to trade everything and
then when you start putting your hands
in all of that you take a step back what
are you really
accomplishing you're going to find it
the more you try to do the less you
actually achieve at
so if it spikes through that fair value
Gap that's in Orange where can it Spike
into New Day opening Gap and because we
have those relative equal highs there we
want to see does it have the ability to
trade above the
endg and maybe Spike through it and
touch this again and then accelerate
through here because otherwise there's
no reason for it to have been
here we to do all this and not take that
out at the minimum
is
foolishness if I was Phill I would just
simply run it
here spike it up on to here with three
candles
after what that's just me
now think about like this say for
instance that we did not get this
retracement on the weekly range of 20%
so it means the highest high and the
lowest low of this particular trading
week okay say we didn't get that 20%
retracement yet and where we're trading
TimeWise not pricewise TimeWise I would
expect the market to try to sell off to
try to explore that 20% but because we
have had this happen already
here right there it's more likely that
it's going to create a lot
of price action that
is it's fuzzy
okay like it's it's real fuzzy back and
forth back and forth back it's going
certain places yes but it's not running
like from here
displacement
inefficiency displacement inefficiency
displacement you see that contrast
this with all this
garbage okay when does that come into
the marketplace when is it when is it
visible in price after it's already done
20% retracement on the week so now it's
going to take
something
for well let's say it this way it's
going to be a manual intervention for it
to create a higher high on the week
there you go
and I can anticipate times that
occurring but mostly I don't know when
it's likely to occur but usually it's
like fomc obviously they're timed by the
economic calendar but when there is
nothing in the economic calendar and the
hand if you will comes into the
marketplace and starts manipulating and
driving price to a specific price
level they will come out of the woodwork
at times when I don't expect it but it
will take something like that after 20%
or 30% has been met as a retracement in
the same week and then if it goes and
retraces and runs higher that's always
absolutely 100% manual intervention that
means they are rigging it they're
pricing it in there the market makers if
you will uh they're they're they're
behind it and you will see very very low
volume send it there so that kind of
like laughs in the face of it's buying
selling
pressure all right so we're back in the
new day opening Gap found our way above
it now we're inside of it in here now
you can touch this here and see how it
reacts off of
that so here's a question for you is it
is it
something easier for the market to trade
to the liquidity that's resting right
above these relative equal highs or is
it more likely to go not here but all
the way back down here which one's
easier to
do which one's more likely to occur
if it can run these highs is it out of
the question for it to go over here and
upset where it's smooth does it need to
go all the way back up to here no why
because this high is higher than that
one this high is higher than the one to
the
right this high is higher than the one
to the right so which one's the valid
relative equal high this one and this
one is this relative equal
low seen with a lower or higher low
here it's lower on that
one so which one's more
probable the B side
now what would be
neat this is how I would really do it I
would pump it from where it's at here
clear the nine uh 590 level I would
sweep 601 on a Candlestick Wick just a
wick no body and then I would slam it
down
below and take out the low of the day
that's how I would that's how I would do
it and that would keep the weekly high
in check not not take the weekly High
out it would take out the high of day
day session that's here the day day
session high is that Candlestick right
there so that way you can sweep that
that's Disturbed this is taken out and
we're still leaving the weekly Range
High in play it this doesn't get T it
doesn't get taken out doesn't get traded
to and then run it all the way lower and
take out the people down here that have
been trying to make money all day
continuing the Run that's been done for
the last two weeks like two full weeks
of up up up up
up but knock these individuals out that
are short that would be positioned to be
profitable and knock out anyone that has
a stop loss there so they rode this down
and hint nudge nudge and then you have
this they bump that and then it drops
but that drop would be fast it would be
furious it would be like sudden not a
drifting fuzzy drop like this stuff in
here like all this stuff here it's too
fuzzy you want to see it look like this
where it's just Ride the
Lightning it's a Metallica reference for
those
to oh man play a Metallica I ex me
I was supposed to close this at
11:30 this guy's a
liar you getting extra you didn't have
to pay for
[Music]
it okay would you feel confident if you
were
long and if you were short would you
feel confident let's say your stop loss
is right
here and you're
short would you feel comfortable right
now watch that orange range see if we
can get a single candle come out and tap
it again
same thing for the end dog you get above
it see if there's a single cam that
comes down and touches it then you study
that one and see if it runs from that if
you can either touch this or
touch it's got to leave it it can't do
that that's not what I'm referring to
it's got to close a candle come down to
start a new candle and then touch it
either the high consequent encouragement
or the low it can Spike as low as this
one here and study and see if it goes to
these relative equal highs to bump the
high of the
day and if it can reach there does it
have The Moxy to reach up into and Spike
through these clean levels right
here all right now watch the next
candle we hit
it right here is where the spy side
[Music]
Trade It Up open Trade It Down touched
it rally this is
balanced like to see this portion stay
open between that candle's high that
candle
low how many handles is
this from the new day opening Gap
High to the high
here 20 handles right so that's a that's
a min minimum for me that's a minimum
range for targeting purposes so if it's
a setup that affords me the setup
to identify where price could
reach where it could start and the
Inception of the price run so words I
can frame something as a beginning point
and I can frame something as a
Terminus if it's 20 handles for NQ that
is a trade that is in my opinion worth
it
if it's less than I'm not interested in
it does that make sense visually now
regardless if it goes up here or not it
has to have the range between where the
trade could begin and where the trade
could draw to because we have these
relative equal highs up here they may
bump the high of the day which is this
relative equal high they could bump that
clear it and how far can it clear it we
have those relative equal highs to the
left over here we referring to all
session okay
so all right so we had this Gap close in
it doesn't change it just means that
it's better for it to stay
open it would have to be below
this volume balance for a stop for the
ones that are wondering what that would
be so your risk would be there and
deference to that candle right there
that low plus a tick up because it has
to be if you're trying to use a new day
opening Gap High that's the first
barrier easiest low threshold for
barrier of Entry that means you're
picking the one that's most likely
easiest to fill if you're trying to get
consequent encroachment of the new day
opening Gap you would never gotten
filled if you were trying to use the low
of it you never would have gotten filled
so the high plus one tick your fill
would be there your stop loss would be
below this candle's open that's the
risk it's not
much but it would have been better if it
would left that cap open here I would
have like to seen that stay open but now
we're going to get a real example of
what it looks like when it does close it
how does it behave
see where we're trading at right now
also
I the good first
[Music]
consequent encro of the
wick see where we're
trading so we want to see if it can
gravitate towards that high or these
highs
rather I promise you on cleaner days
it's going to be a a lot more fun but
you have to go through these days
because you're going to trade with these
type days as well so it it doesn't do
you good and this is why I was trying to
teach my students in
um when I would go through and point out
certain things in price action to start
giving them a
baseline to what to look for what's
important what's not all that important
what are going to be things that are be
con concerning for the trade for the
idea for the price to be moving a
specific spefic level or how it should
deliver I had so many
people quit the first two months because
they were not willing to sit and observe
because you're how how can you identify
something like how can you how can you
identify it if it doesn't pan out rep
with repetition if you will if you don't
see it constantly you know panning out
how can you identify it on your own
because if it was easy and it was
something that everybody can do
everybody could write the same book
reword it differently but it's the same
pattern or same thing that occurs in
price
action and then we wouldn't need to have
people like Educators and mentors and
stuff they could just everybody does the
same thing because we can see at one
time and know what we're
doing do you have that drop down in that
consequent C with and
dog that's pretty Sharp
so you have to sit and watch and by
watching and forcing yourself in days
where it's going to be harder for you to
do it pretending that it's going to be
easy and if I put my students in
conditions where it's obvious it's easy
it's going to be really easy fast runs
to everything that we point out that
gives you a false sense of security it
makes it feel like well I'm ready to go
out there and treat with real money but
when you start watching price action
over over more challenging conditions
which we are in challenging conditions
anyone that has been trading longer than
a couple
years can tell you that how we're
trading now these are very difficult
marking conditions Prior to let's say uh
10 okay or
2007 totally different kind of market
conditions they're they're whole lot
more volatile which is fun but that
volatility comes with it with a
price and it causes a whole lot more
opportunities for the market to be
challenging so we have this Market trade
Above This High
there so that would be opportunity for
you if you're going to be doing partials
you have to entertain the idea that
would be a partial because your first
high is here Terminus is here Terminus
is where you think the trade is going to
go to that means it's going to book
price to that price level that's how you
frame it so if you think price is going
to go to a particular level in your
notations and your annotating that's
Terminus that kills the idea for you and
you're satisfied it does not mean it
can't go further it just means that
that's what you're trying to frame for
that move and if it afford you in here
and it touched here and it ride to this
high when it retraced back down in and
ran up one more time soon as it takes
out that high this is called running
down Equity okay my private students
know this I don't know if I mention it
in any lectures I I don't know if I did
it publicly but all my private students
know this and anytime you're in a trade
and you're long if you have a short-term
high
before the Run gets to your target but
it has to be at least 50% of the Run so
words if it gets halfway to where you
think it's going to go what does that
mean this is where we were watching it
start so from here to here that high is
above it isn't
it so if it passes through it one time
you have to take a partial there so if
you're learning how to take partials
your partial will be taken
there that right there that would have
been stop so you would have partial One
Stop on the
balance you log
how much time did it take entry on one
candle 1 minute 2 minute 3 minute 4
minutes for partial five if your limit
order was a little bit higher let's be
real and say it's five minutes five
minutes and then you got stopped out on
six seven eight 9 minutes so 9 minutes
into the the setup 9 minutes you're
stopped on the balance one partial and
you go to the next setup so it gives you
data it gives you how much time did it
move what was the distance from the
entry
72 we'll just call it 10 10 uh handles
with spread both both in and
out so you can go in and start now let
me take this
off I promise you it doesn't feel fun
but this is all the stuff that you use
to figure out how where to place a stop
loss where to take partials when's the
market going to be
harder how to how to frame the setup
where's the
Terminus when what's the first threshold
that you have to breach before you can
even consider taking a partial not just
is because you're in a trade you're up
500 bucks and you never seen that before
then me just take something off because
I'm afraid that's impulsive that's
emotional so you have to have rules and
processes and protocols to follow and
over time it'll give you more and more
experience and you'll trust it I'm
watching how they're wicking in this all
here we trade it back down into the
volume IM balance so that might be just
an area where they have
reaccumulated so I'm watching to see can
we maybe entertain the idea getting back
above this here if it touches it we'll
try to do another observation on that
one so we traded once more here I would
have if you remember back here I said it
could trade back down and touch this one
more time it did a little bit too late
for my liking so now I would demand for
it to trade above get into into this one
and then treat that same fair value Gap
Again by a new candle it's got to go
above it new candle open go down and
trade into it then see if we can start
setting up here and maybe challenge the
high of the
day if we lose this Gap here then I will
I will change my focus to weakness going
into the close but right now my focus is
here and maybe as much as up
here let's leave it in the screen
but you can see how we rallied gave a
little bit of range came back dug in
deep now I know some of you are actually
taking these trades and you should not
be doing it you should not be using
where I said this is where the stock
would be don't put your liquidity there
because there's so many people following
this live stream by you doing that and
the Market's this close you're creating
a very easy very easy target for them to
push a button open the spreads make it
run and go right down there and fill
it you get stopped out and there you go
I'm teaching you how to read it and when
you read it you're not on the internet
with 20,000 people telling them to put
the same stop loss where yours is
at right see it's spiked above it there
but didn't give me the body I want to
see it go above it close above it open a
new candle and then
see what we do by touching it
then if it does I think it's going to be
real fast like it'll run real real quick
if at all if it's going to go up there
and take those relative equal HIDs out
it'll be a fast
run because we're real close to high day
liquidity and they're not going to want
to let them pull those orders out so how
they overcome that they do a real quick
fast sudden run
okay watch this candle
here six Pence None the Richer comes to
mind song Kiss Me I want to see it just
touch that right there but I'm looking
at that Wick and it's just real hard to
get just the consequent encouragement
and went into
that all right now go back to that
analogy your stop- loss is here you've
been short all day you've been feeling
sexy you've been feeling smart do you
feel good right
now say you've been smarter than those
guys and you've had your stop up
here do you feel smart do you feel safe
[Music]
the next candle should send
us for
imagine your stop loss is sitting right
there at
592 and you're thinking I really wish I
would have listened to taking partials
to ICT videos talks
about so now for here what's to say that
we can't run up there and take that
60150 level out because it's too it's
too smooth up there too
smooth why would they let them off the
hook right if you're so close to that
why not just simply put a pairing of two
orders on short and a long right at
601.051
Market
order short and sold and and long and
short basically and then all of a sudden
the folks that have their stop loss at
that level or just above it they get
engaged but there's no honeymoon
divorce so you want to screenshot
that okay so I've given you instances
where you would read it you get a
partial you get stopped out you look for
it to give you a fill it just falls
short of touching it you wouldn't have
been fill there but then it it runs so
in a real world while you're learning
this is what it's going to feel like
when you're doing your observations
you're going to have a good good feel
for what it's likely to do you're going
to have a real good inkling that it's
going to go to a specific level I think
it's going to go there I think it's
going to go here and then you're going
to look for certain things in price that
may or may not afford you an entry and
now you have you're met with either
you're going to be frustrated or you're
going to say you know
what I saw where it was going to go and
it went there so now I feel confident
that I can stick to doing this next week
I'm gonna study price action and I'm
gonna get better at this because I see
there's something going on but I can't
quite put my finger on it yet but I feel
like I'm getting closer to it if you
feel that way you're in the right you're
on the right path if you're here
thinking there's no trade being taken
this is dumb well that's an indication
that you need go somewhere else because
I'm teaching people how to do it on
their own and the ones that make money
and you see them out there card carrying
members of the ICT Cult of
winning they will tell you that they had
to do stuff like this too and it didn't
happen right away it wasn't easy it
wasn't fast for them and they had doubts
and they had other people and still
people that are my students that are
making money they're still being trolled
because these people are miserable and
they're broke and they're never going to
make money and they will never have
attention placed on them greater than
the person they're turn the control if
they give them the grace of saying
anything about whatever they say about
them that's the extent or that's the
Pinnacle of their existence
so are you going to let would you let
these people anyone that's going to try
to talk down to you if you are making
money and you start making money and
you're profiting would you let their
criticism have any impact on you when
you're making
money no you wouldn't it would have no
you wouldn't it wouldn't bother you so
why will you allow them to influence you
while you're learning if you already
know other people are using this
information and they're making money
with
it you already know that it works you
just need to know will it work in your
hands and the only way you're going to
know that is if you start and this is
what it looks like when you start I'm
trying to be as practical I'm trying to
be as real and I'm putting you in
conditions that you're going to be met
with every single day whatever the
market throws at me I will engage it and
tell you this is what you should be
looking at this is what may or may not
happen I don't like this I do like that
I'm explaining it where it's
Salient it means where there's something
to explain away and also how to ring in
the
retail like the traders that were
trading a certain way how how do they
get bothered how they get
Disturbed how can they be taken out of
the market if they've been right if
they've been
wrong now I would sink it all the way
down to the low of the day going into
the close
that's that's what I would do that
doesn't mean it's what's going to happen
though but that's exactly what I would
do because that means anyone that was
short they're out anyone that's long
feels Rich right now and the way you do
that is you do a sudden crush and send
it
lower
but I think that's going to be it for
this week um I really had fun this week
I had a lot of fun I wish I would not
have live streamed yesterday simply
because my attention was elsewhere and
I'm probably going to have to start the
stream sooner simply because OBS is
mucking around with me and I don't know
what I'm doing wrong that it keeps
causing me a problem where I can't load
it up and I don't know what I don't know
any other streaming software that works
with uh YouTube and I don't want to
venture to try to learn anything new
either so it's kind of like I'm I want
to see this get resolved so that way I
can when I start a stream it's starts
off with without a hitch because I'm I'm
obsessively compulsive and you you
probably picked that up over the years
listening to
me and when I get jerked out of gear
it's it takes a minute or two for me to
to get my my bearings and try to forget
about something that's either upset me
or or bothered me but
um I hope you guys are are are learning
okay
and these first couple weeks they're
boring they really really boring
information and it's important that
Caleb is reminded just as much as you if
you're trying to really make a good
attempt at learning all this
stuff you're only going to be as good as
the market environments that is
presented to
you
and Bob Ross as beautiful as a painting
that he can paint when he was alive and
with us and as cool and as mellow as he
was while he was doing
it I'm quite certain that if we would
asked him while he was alive say Hey
listen
Bob this brick
wall this brick wall is your canvas
today okay and I'm sorry I didn't bring
any paint brushes and you aren't allowed
to use any of yours but I have these
spray paint cans okay we have these
spray paint cans and we have eight of
them eight different colors and we want
to see you paint a snowy background with
a little cabin with these happy little
trees and we want some birds and we want
a little string that has some some ice
on parts of it not entirely all it and
we expect to see you do that in 30
minutes and keep us entertain with some
mellow Jazz coming out of these bcal
cords well I'm quite certain that Bob
Ross is going to fail doing that because
number one that's not his typical canvas
and it's also his not it's not his
medium is his paint brushes are not his
tool they're not there rather he's he's
being asked to do something in a canvas
with tools he's not used to doing or
using well there's going to be times
where your
tools will not be accessible to you and
it's going to be dictated by the market
environment how the market
behaves if the market doesn't give you
your price you can't do anything about
it I mean you can get mad and you can
get angry because you just had one
exposure to it trying to do it you think
well it didn't work this time so it's
probably never going to work in the
future and that's not realistic anyone
that is trying to educate and they're
not reminding the people they're trying
to teach probably with any real
skill and they're not reminding them or
showcasing or giving them the realities
that you can have all the things in the
world that's going to afford you an
entry mechanism to get into the market
place but the Market's going to do what
the Market's going to do and if you do
it wrong you have brought in the element
of humanity I am a human just like any
one of you I can feel much more
confident about a setup than I should I
can feel less confident about a setup
than I should and I may not see a setup
at all because it just jumps out at me
because I'm either distracted or just
not I'm just not paying enough attention
because I have something else on my mind
you're going to encounter that as well
but you need to give yourself the
opportunity to study price action when
you feel feel a little bit of anxiety
when you feel like you're having a
little bit of things in your personal
life bothering
you measure your response to what price
is doing in those instances you're going
to get huge revelations in who you are
how you think and how you're going to
react afterwards because if you have an
adverse result say you you spent hours
in front of the price action and you
felt like you didn't come away with
anything it felt like it was
unproductive
how are you going to treat yourself the
rest of that day and the day after on a
day like Friday how are you going to
treat yourself throughout the entirety
of the weekend are you going to punish
yourself for not knowing enough not
being able to do it should have known
better should know more by now I should
be making money with this I'm I'm going
to quit if it doesn't start showing me
anything next
week how do you think because if you
start feeling toxic like that and if you
really want to learn how to do this you
have to remind I'm here I'm reminding
you right now it is not going to be that
fast for you I have never had a student
not one student has ever come to me and
inside of a couple months figured it all
out and they're making money it doesn't
work like that folks because you have
your own issues that you have to
identify and then build coping skills
around them if they're extremely toxic
that means impatience highly critical of
yourself of everyone else unrealistic
expectations you should be making money
within a mon month that's what you're
thinking and that's not
true that's not true my son I want him
to make as much money as he wants him
more but I've already told him he will
not see profitability shorter than six
months it won't
happen and you get to watch it you get
to see it you get to see it unfold every
step every lecture every lesson I'm
making it available to you I mean look
at me I'm they're they're very long
they're not short little five minute
videos or not 30 minute videos I'm going
over live PR action and I'm talking
about what he's probably going to feel
what he's probably is feeling when he's
watching the price
action and I'm explaining the does and
the don'ts and why and where it's
Salient why it shouldn't what's
important to me right now and why should
it be
important you don't always know what
price is going to do next you're you're
not going to know that okay you're not
going to know that so you're going to
have to subscribe to
uncertainty and trading is embracing
that
uncertainty but having enough experience
seeing certain things that you use as a
catalyst as the reason for you to get
involved or engage price action these
things will become characteristics that
you see repeating they may not all be
there but if a number of them are in
play and you see it in price action that
should bolster your confidence to at
least explore it and over time how much
time I don't know for every one of you
you're all going to do it at a different
pace but when you have a daily
interaction with price action whether
beind sight or real time preferably real
time if you cannot watch price like I'm
showing you here the best thing you can
do is watch the the the streams watch
the recordings if you can't watch it
live watch them at the same Pace do not
speed them up if you speed them up
you're getting a skewed perspective it's
not the same as watching it real time
doing it at two times the speed because
you want to get through it because you
ain't got that much time that's the
wrong way of doing it because you can't
speed up your understanding while you're
watching live price action you can't do
that
part don't think of it as I'm getting
through it quicker and I'll be able to
watch more videos because more videos is
not it I've already told you you're not
going to win in in this progress by
watching in more videos you need to be
watching price and then how you feel
what you're thinking what you're fearful
of when do you get elated and feel like
oh yeah this is working out perfectly
and you need to make annotations about
when you feel that euphoric moment where
it's perfect I know it's going to happen
and then when it doesn't and it turns
back on you what do you
feel do you feel embarrassed do you feel
like a failure do you feel like oh it's
never going to work for me and you need
to be honest with yourself in this part
of your development the very very early
stages and then if you discover that
you're very toxic to yourself you need
to start replacing those toxic ideas and
opinions of yourself and your efforts
while you're doing this and reward
yourself for the effort to keep doing it
and say you know what this gives me
opportunity to see what did I miss what
would I've done differently now that
I've seen this and is there any
investment that I can make in myself by
having this exposure that was adverse
and you do it in a very disarming way so
that way you're not punishing yourself
selft talk is absolutely critical in
this not just when you're still learning
how to trade but when you are a Trader
because you're going to have losing days
you're going to know and I'm saying this
and I'm closing you're going to know
when your model was there and when to
engage it and there's going to be
instances where you feel
externally you feel this desire to
compensate for something that's
occurring
or has occurred in your personal life
some inadequacy some kind of uh mistake
you maybe said maybe you said something
maybe you caused an argument maybe
you're not feeling well or you missed an
opportunity in the previous day maybe
you lost your job or in the verge of
being made redundant at your job and
they may get ready to you give you a
pink slip and send you on your way you
feel something is looming so you go into
the marketplace and you force something
you tell yourself yeah it's there I'm
gonna take the trade I'm not GNA wait
for the real setup because I just need
to be in there because if it pans out
it'll make me feel better than I feel
right now because my real life outside
these charts while I'm learning how to
be a
Trader I need a distraction from that
and these candlesticks are not used for
that purpose if you treat them like a
siren they'll call you to the
Rocks if you invite
them if you invite them to be that trick
on the corner that you need to release
from you might be able to afford that
real quick friendly handshake with her
or
him which you might not like what you
get on the other side of
it same thing with reading price action
it's either there or it isn't and the
only way you recognize it is by
repetition seeing it you'll watch me for
weeks and months do this and you're
going to start seeing the same things
and it's going to be boring that's
exactly what your goal is you want to be
able to you want to be able to finish my
sentences
or predict what I'm about to say based
on what the candlesticks are doing
nothing pleases me more than seeing
individuals show their trades
recorded annotate them with the same
observations I would have and many times
have because that means you're on the
same wavelength you're seeing the same
thing that means you have received what
I put
down you received that transmission that
that download of
intelligence left me and went into you
and that's proof of concept and it's
also proof that if other people can do
it women young and old men young and old
different cultures different race
different backgrounds hey if they can do
it why aren't you able to do it
what's going to prevent you from doing
it I'm going to tell you what's going to
prevent you not subscribing to what I'm
doing here daily not doing those things
doing it like this you have the benefit
of me doing it with you right now when
this gets to the point where Caleb is
now able to do on his own I won't be
doing this and you'll miss it you won't
have the the the ability the same
effects of watching it live seeing when
it's obvious when it's not obvious
obious when things change gears and it
becomes much more clear oh now now it
changes that's something you have to see
as it happens it can't be communicated
in a book a static picture a paragraph
three four pages of it isn't going to
give you the answer because it's going
to feel like well you know he has the
benefit of having known at the time what
the price is going to do but I don't
have that safety net here in front of
you in front of with with real time
price action
so either the methodology holds up or it
doesn't hold up and if you don't see
these things you know repeating to a
degree of repetition that warrants your
interest to keep showing up and watching
or
studying by all means please go watch
someone else you don't have to give me
the middle finger out the door as you go
you don't have to let the door hit you
in the ass either it just it wasn't your
thing and go chase something else that
you think is going to be better fit and
whatever it is if it's not my stuff if
it works and it makes you money man God
bless you for that like I I I I want all
of that for you I don't want to hold
anybody up but I also am honest I'm not
going to hold you up with useless
things I'm going to put you through the
things that you're going to have to do
to really learn
this understanding why it's going to
take place why it shouldn't take place
when the odds are against a certain
thing when the odds are still 5050
and you're going to see when I talk
about well this is a real this is a nice
clean Market that means you want to rec
this this today's recording today's live
stream today's episode or whatnot this
is a day where you want to put it in
your Journal that day August uh what are
we on
16th 2024 was a very thickle day
whenever I say it's you know we're in a
market that's probably going to be
thickle today or it's being fickle what
does that mean you're going to have a
whole lot of fuzzy price action where
it's overlapping constantly back and
forth back and forth back and forth and
it does these little sputtering like and
then that's it and back into fuzzy price
action and then when you get to lunch
whatever has happened you in the day
they'll make a run against that and then
then you have the
afternoon on a Friday there's no telling
what they're going to do that's why in
the afternoon if I haven't made money
in the morning on Fridays I don't go in
in the afternoon and say well you let me
see if I can get I don't want to do
that I have had losses on those days
because I'm trying to fill in a void
where maybe I missed a move in the
morning and I wanted to trade it 32
years of plus doing this I still feel
human impulses to be more involved than
I
should and I have seen that when I try
to go in on a Friday if I haven't done
anything all all day or maybe I missed
it or say I there's an instance a few
times in my memory now I can remember
where I was ill I was physically sick
and I wasn't able to trade all
throughout the week and I was like you
know what I got time I'm G to go out
there and I only have like an hour and a
half left in the the week and it's it
had a pretty good move for the week and
it's obvious that I think it's going to
do this or do that and I go in and I
engage in it and then then it starts
moving in my favor and I start
pyramiding and pyramiding and then
I put a stop in where
it's should be protecting it but it runs
up in tags it it eats away and I didn't
take any partial so what I've done is
I've committed too much to an idea
didn't follow the rules of taking
partials and I'm building a position and
left the stop in a position where if it
takes me out it's a losing trade is it
losing a lot of money no but I gave up
all of what I built up and now I have a
loss psychologically and emotionally
carrying into the weekend knowing full
well that I've told myself instances
beforehand that I shouldn't do that and
I did so you're not going to discover
where your pitfalls and snares are until
you start logging them but nobody wants
to do those things because it
encapsulates and and makes a monument to
Frailty and failure but as a Trader you
want to really identify what they are
because you'll never be able to fix and
address them and replace them with the
right stuff unless you identify them but
the Young Generation that wants to run
around be chairman and and mentors okay
and have a voice they don't have the
clout behind them to
to promote the validity of having a
voice they're parenting they're
parenting me they're parenting other
people anything that's written in a book
that's what they're saying
they've memorized that script and they
just sound smart to people that don't
know anything about what they're talking
about and it's all together something
different when you get out here and
you're literally over a live price
action and we're not talking about just
following some indicators there has to
be a logic explain what should take
place why shouldn't it take place when
and where it
should and your audience your your
student base if they see something that
they're pursuing and they see the
evidences of it if they see the things
that are starting to pan out and they
start all the dots are starting to
connect and that fuzzy image of what's
the future look like for them starts to
come clearer and clearer and clearer and
then they can start seeing wow I can be
a Trader that takes a trade that's a
breaker here here here we're trading
inside these last two up closed candles
right in here
so if you're you're going to use that
logic what are you going to use as a
stop loss if you have that PD array
understood not just simply a new day
opening Gap and a volume imbalance your
stop has to be down
here right below that
low so while Caleb will be using fair
value gaps as his entry model he'll have
to grow out of that before he's allowed
to get any more information from
me you just like he is he's learning
other PD arrays that will
complement so I've had students that
come to me and say I'm going to make the
order block my entry method okay well
you now just made it harder because
there are all kinds of order blocks
which one are you going to use what's
the framework within that order Block's
use what are you trading
on it's not just I'm going to buy a down
closed candle I'm going to sell short of
up closed candle there has to be some
kind of framework
and I gave you a a challenge this week I
don't know what day it was but I know I
mentioned it this week I said can you
frame what your trade idea can you draw
it out with a line like a draw draw it
out with a line depiction because if you
can't draw it out on a napkin or a piece
of paper to explain
someone what it is you're trying to
do you don't really know what you're
doing
that that is your
first goal to know before you start
pressing a button with the demo account
okay you need to be able to draw
it you need to be able to draw a
depiction of what it looks like as a buy
what it looks like as a sell where's
your initial stop loss where's your
initial
paral how will you close the trade at
Terminus I'm not talking about how many
contracts or what your risk manager is
going to be but what does the framework
look like because if you can't do that
guess what you're indicating you're IND
indicating that you did not walk the
woods with
Daddy you did not hear the crunch of the
snow under your boot as you were walking
on snow following Footprints of a deer
an elk a bear whatever it is you're
hunting whatever dad's trying to teach
you that that we're going to hunt today
you didn't go out in the woods that day
you didn't follow Dad into the woods you
didn't spend any time trying to remember
what these footprints look like because
if you understood what those footprints
look like you can draw a crude depiction
of what a deer track looks like a bare
paw print an
elk whatever it is you're hunting you'll
know what it looks like because you've
seen it enough times so how can you be
mad at yourself if you can't recognize a
setup because you've never spent time
studying what a setup looks like the one
you're hunting you don't know what
you're going to hunt yet so by watching
live price action it will teach you what
it is it's going to be easy for you to
see every Hunter does not hunt
everything they go out and they hunt
deer they go boar hunting they go bear
hunting whatever it is they hunt they
hunt turkey hunting duck hunting now you
might do duck and you might do deer but
you're not hunting
everything you don't have enough time to
do it you have job you have family you
have whatever you're doing
NASCAR now we're talking ICT hot damn
we're talking some [__] now ain't we
but you have to be able to be in here
looking for your
setup so while we go through the coming
weeks it's not necessary for you to do
it yet if you're brand new if you're
really trying to make a serious attempt
to learn how to do this stuff it's not
realistic for you to know that yet but
just know that that's a homework
assignment that every single week that
we spend together you need to be
thinking how did this build in any more
understanding about what price is likely
to do leads me to a pattern and a
framework that sets up a trade that has
a beginning where I buy or sell where I
can place a stop loss that is finite
that means it's not it's not imaginary
it means I'm literally going to put a
stop loss there and if I get stopped out
I'm okay with
it where would be the first partial
formed or what's the logic behind where
the first partial would be taken all of
this can be added some of you are going
to be like well you can't do that ICT
well you don't know what you're talking
about okay that means don't know enough
yet but you will keep just stay with us
stay on the train it's not costing you
any money but I promise because it's my
son's end result it's in mind remember
I'm not doing this to entertain you
people I'm doing this to give him what
works and I'm giving him a framework to
study this is how you do it this is what
it looks like and because sometimes he's
working he has to watch these live
streams after the fact just like you
that work have job have college you know
you're sleeping because you're not
watching this time of day you want me to
get up and trade Forex in London for you
okay um these same principles are going
to be those same time frames and other
assets as well but I'm not going to be
I'm not interested in answering
everybody's you know request list that's
not why I'm here I have have a job to
take care of which is teach my son the
right way it's the way he's going to
have to learn it and this is the this is
what I've preached to all of you if you
paid me to learn how to do this I've
said all these things before and I was
doing these things in live stream every
single day in mentorship the first year
I literally did this every single day
and it was monotonous it was boring it
seemed like oh it is not a trade when
you didn't realize I'm literally giving
you a baseline you have to see these
things I know what I'm looking for I'm
not looking at every one of these things
today I'm looking for one or two things
and I'm done because I know what I want
to trade on but I have to give you as
the student and specifically my son you
have to bring your own personality into
this and you have to grow at your own
speed and your own pace and since it's
my son I'm okay with it as long as I got
breath in my lungs and I can have my
mental faculties I will be here doing
this because I want him to succeed and I
want his brothers to have the same
reference material should they say well
you know I'm going to go through what
you went through they they'll have it
it's here they can see
it but none of them wanted to sit down
and do this part they all just want the
money they all want it the easy way so
in that regard for some of you or all of
you really you all just want a real
quick short way of doing it and you
think that I have that for my children
and I don't this is what's essential
they have to do this just like
you you will not understand Enigma
unless you have these Baseline
understandings that's it so for people
that say they they figured it out they
cracked a code you're a liying piece of
[__] period okay
period so I'm G to leave you with that I
will wish you all a very pleasant
weekend a safe weekend try to relax
don't spend too much time if you've been
with me each day you live don't to too
much on the weekend relax use that as
your downtime because you can burn
yourself out really fast this is a lot
of time being invested listening to me
and you're not really paying attention
entirely it's easy for you to just phase
in and out but there
are a large number of you that can't be
here and you're complaining about the
length of these things if I'm trying to
teach you live price action and it needs
to be done over live
data how is it benefiting you if I'm
talking less when you have to get a
comprehensive understanding of what the
Market's going to do over the spectrum
of a whole trading session like that
just proves a myopic perspective you
don't even know what you're supposed to
know to even ask the right questions and
that's not to be condescending to you if
you if that's how you feel that's why I
delete your comment or I ban you when
you're commenting stuff like that you
talk too much I don't ever want to hear
from somebody like that because you're
telling me the clearest way that I'm not
here to learn properly
and I don't I don't appreciate your time
and and your effort because I don't need
to do this for
you I'm doing it for my son and I'm
hoping it's going to inspire him enough
to show results to his brothers where
they will get jealous I'm trying to
create jealousy in them because they're
boys and just like every other boy they
want to pull out their dick and measured
against somebody else's and say I'm
bigger than you
bub and I know that that will make them
want to do it if one of them's doing it
they all want to do it when Cameron was
making money in TOP Step my youngest son
dad can you teach me how to
trade but the same Tik Tock mentality I
sat down with him I did one day with him
like this and he was looking at his
phone I said put the phone on the
counter over there and he's staring off
in the space and he wasn't watching the
chart attention span's too small wants
it right now and that's the that's the
problem driveth through menu mentality
give it to me right now and the time I
spent from driving my car to one menu to
get up there to receive see them um food
from you is too
long and I can't tolerate that like I
have no no tolerance for that type of
[__] and that's why I teach the way I do
I sound like a hard ass I sound like a
prick and I'm very very direct and I
don't care about your feelings because
the market doesn't care about your
feelings it doesn't care that it feels
harder for you to learn this it doesn't
care once you arrive and you get to your
profitable model it doesn't care that
you have that profitable model it's
going to do what it's going to do if
you're in it and you make money it
doesn't care it's indifferent to you but
you're going to personify it like it's
hurting your
feelings because you have the the wrong
perspective you have to be 100%
responsible and you don't know how
you're going to react to determine the
level of responsibility you have until
you go through this stuff you have to
put yourself through it see it I don't
care who it is people that like me don't
like me if they have a model if they
have a software they designed or they
use or they sell whatever they all did
this [__] they sat and they watched
price action and they had to get used to
seeing these things happen when you're
trading what do you think's going to
happen differently you think that
they're going to speed the [__]
charts up for you two times the speed do
you think that annotations are going to
pop up on your [__] chart there's a
trading view indicator ICT m in inner
musings of ICT you're going to watch
price action and everything that I'm
saying here when price is ticking and
where I think is interesting and what it
should do what it shouldn't do there's
an indicator going to pop up and
populate all that stuff on your chart
you think that's going to happen because
it's not going to happen your chart's
going to be naked until you scribble
whatever it is that you put on it or if
you leave it open whatever happens by
your observation of watching price
action that's what you're left with
that's the reality of trading you don't
know what the next candle's going to do
you don't know that you have no idea
where it's going to go but we study to
get a a baseline on how we can
predetermine
the most likely next draw on liquidity
and that's the that's the basis of
profitable trading know where it's
going and then have a pattern that you
trust you've seen many times over and
over again pan out that leads to a
reason to be in that move and Rite it to
that draw and liquidity where you think
it's going to go to and there's lots of
ways to get into a
trade but I don't want to force you into
a mode that says this is the best one
for
you so as a reminder as I close it this
is another week behind us now Caleb's
being forcing into fair value Gap I
promise you I swear to Christ almighty
it's not because the fair value Gap is
the best it's just the one that's easily
visual you can see it easily in the
chart it doesn't
hide when there is a obvious draw on
liquidity he will be using a fair value
Gap and he will buy one tick below the
high of a discount fair value G he will
sell short one tick above the low of a
bearish fair value Gap that's his entry
technique I've already told you now okay
I've told you this yesterday I told you
at the beginning of the live streams
last week how he's going to get in if
you're just wondering what the model is
that's going to get him in you don't
need to watch my videos and stop
bitching about it in my comments because
nobody sees them but me and I see them
one time and I never see it again you'll
never be good at this if that's your
mentality
is but just knowing where a fair value
Gap entry is doesn't mean [__] you have
to know where the Market's going to grow
up to or reduce down to it's going to go
up or it's going to go down and it's
never going to be a straight line for
you it's not going to be like that and
you're going to be met with as I'm going
to talk about in a couple
weeks when it's challenging how to
overcome holding on to an idea when it's
not so clear that it wants to keep doing
it how to hold on to a trade I get that
all the time I've given lots of
responses to that this week I've given
you things on how to frame a trade with
stop-loss placement I've given you
things to think about if you get stopped
out how to revisit the same idea and get
back in I've given you instances where
you could use that same criteria and it'
be reasonable to anticipate a level be
trade to and if you used that it would
still run away without you but go to
where you thought or I said it was going
to
go there's no shame came in that I'm
teaching you how to disarm yourself
because that's the stuff that all my
students that bitched and cried to me in
the beginning that finally found their
way through it by doing this stuff by
journaling correctly not beating
themselves up not talking themselves
down not inviting ass hats on the
internet and their [__] commentaries
and their insults and criticism to
derail
them it's easy to
do you give the devil a seat at the
table he will come and dine with you
don't don't invite
him don't invite
him keep your business your business
don't tell other people what you're
doing don't give progress reports to
other people that you know that now they
know that you're going through this
because they're never going to encourage
you that's not going to happen that's
not going to happen they're going to
give you 15 reasons why you should not
waste any more
time and these same people talking to
you don't make a [__]
penny they don't make a penny and they
probably work at [__] Jiffy Loop and
they never had a job better than that
one
so I'm closing it you have a lot of
homework through this one this week
Caleb lots and lots of need to go
through but we'll be back at it again on
Monday Lord willing I will see you then
until then enjoy your weekend be
safe and I
think I mentioned we're going to work on
the foundations of entry next week so we
we've given some basic rules for draw
liquidity that will be every single time
so it's not like I'm done with that
every single lecture we'll be working
around draws on liquidity but now we're
going to be working with elements of
Entry so that way we can start looking
at it with the perspective of while tape
reading what should I be expected to see
what should it do what shouldn't it do
so we're going to be using the fair
value Gap with that in mind framing the
logic of what an entry would be
hypothetically not pushing a demo button
not not entering a trade but building
that so that we can study it watch it
over time and then you have that skill
set that in when I'm not doing live
streams like if you want to watch the
London session if you want to watch
Forex if you want to watch you know uh
the Asian
session you'll be able to do that stuff
and not require me to be doing it with
you live so it gives you the resources
and the practice the the pro uh the
process and protocols to go through for
you to be able to do it without me
because you got to be involved in this
even when I'm not doing
it okay so that's it I'll talk to you
next time be safe